Tribunals of Hermes: Iberia
Digital Edition Version 1.0
© 2010 Trident, Inc. d/b/a Atlas Games. Ars Magica 
and Mythic Europe. Order of Hermes, Tremere, and 
Doissetep are trademarks of White Wolf, Inc. and are 
used with permission.


--- Page ---

CHAPTER ONE: 
Chapter One: Introduction.. ....................... 
5 
Chapter Two: Mythic History.. .................. 9 
Chapter Three: Hermetic History. ............. 29 
Chapter Four: Iberian Landscape .............. 47 
Chapter Five: Covenants of Iberia.. .......... 75 
Appendix. ................................................. 
118 


--- Page ---

he Tribunals of Hemes: Iberia provides Ars 
Magica players and Storyguides alike with a 
wealth of information on the famed Iberian 
Tribunal, where Magus meets mundane in a 
hostile land wracked by war. And yet, Iberia is not defined 
solely by its Magi and constant martial struggle.. This supple- 
ment goes beyond, describing Spain’s broad lands, exotic 
peoples, and mysterious beings, bothmundane and supernatu- 
ral. Indeed, this book helps you locate a Covenant, story, or 
complete Saga. anywhere in Mythic Europe’s westernmost 
continental reach. Characters may find themselves trudging 
through the harsh Pyrenees, in heated battle ivith pagan 
Saracens and their sorcerers, racing against pirates on the 
Mediterranean, or exploring the western sea toward the worlds 
edge. You hold in your hands all you need to tell any tale in 
Hermes’s Iberian Tribunal. Here is a land that abounds with 
high drama and brooding evil. It is yours to explore and yours 
to endure. 
The Tribunals of Hemes: Iberia is an important Ars 
Magica supplement, beyond describing majestic Spain, be- 
cause it is the first in a series of books that explore the Tribuds 
of Hemes. Each of these books presents for your edification 
and entertainment a region of Mythic Europe, with boundaries 
determined by Hermetic politics. Each book therefore offers a 
richly detailed land for discovery by both residents of the land, 
partaking of a Saga there, or for travelers of the land, visiting in 
a tale of adventure. With these Tribunal books, the grandeur, 
desolation, corruption, and mystery of the Order of Hemes 
and Mythic Europe itself unfold. 
OVERVIEW 
This book expands upon information provided in previ- 
ous Ars Magica supplements. Specifically, this book elaborates 
on previous infomation on Iberia’s Magi and Covenants 
offered in the second edition of The Order of Hemes. Iberia 
also develops the geographical and htorical information 
provided in Mythic Europe. That is, this book rises from the 
largely factual, sweeping text of Mythic Europe to investigate 
the fanciful, supernatural, and strange side of the peninsula, its 
Magi and covenants included. 
Although Iberia picks up where The Order of Hemes and 
Mythic Europe leave off, those books are not required for 
broader understanding of the peninsula. This text stands on its 
own, being the ultimate source for Spanish information, adven- 
tures, and tales. 
What does all this mean in terms of this book’s content? 
Well, The Tribunals of Hemes: Iberia begins by providing a 
brief account of Spanish history, concentrating on epic events 
that have forged the features of 13th century Spain. To a large 
extent these events involve as much historical accuracy as they 
do legend and folklore. This book also accounts for the early 
days of the Order of Hemes, not just in terms of the Tribunal 
itself, but in terms of early Spain’s ties to the Roman Order of 
Mercury. Of course, Iberia’s many Covenants are also dis- 
cussed, with emphasis placed on the more influential and 
powerful. However, minor Covenants are also discussed, and 
if you do not set any part of your Saga at a larger Covenant, these 
lesser Covenants can be developed to suit your story needs. 


--- Page ---

Also provided are accounts of supernatural places and people 
in Iberia. Covenants' are not the only places housing the 
mystical. Finally, this book offers suggestions for many varied 
Sagas, not just stories, that you can use to express the Iberian 
experience. Thus, this book offers just about everything you 
need to bring Mythic Iberia to life. 
' 
THEME 
AND NATURE 
Isolation andinvasion; two concepts that seem antithetical 
to one another. These are, however, the two things that shape 
Iberia. .The relationship between the peninsula's physical 
isolation and the invaders that have plagued it over the centu- 
ries has created a dynamic, proud, and fiercely defiant people. 
Iberia is isolated in that it is almost completely surrounded 
by the waters of the Mediterranean and Atlantic. The peninsula 
isonlyconnected tomainlandMyhcEuropebyasmallstretch 
of land, sharing only 300 miles of border with France. Ironi- 
cally, this small stretch of land further isolates Spain for it is here 
that the majestic Pyrenees rise, preventing nearly all travel 
between the two lands. And while the seas that surround Iberia 
contain her, limiting her bounds andreaches, they also, cruelly, 
fail to protect her. It is from the sea that many of the peninsula's 
raiders come. As the sea restricts the freedom of Iberia's people, 
it invites subjection, in the form of invasion. 
However, given Iberia's nature, once invaders do land, 
they face constant struggle against the land's natives. The 
isolation-that breeds a dynamic and proud people makes them 
equally fierce opponents, prepared to sacrifice all for indepen- 
dence. 
And yet, though Iberians are isolated and victimized by 
their land, in some ways they benefit from both conditions. 
Invaders bring with them culture and law, both of which form 
the structure of a society that has existed for centuries. Invaders 
build roads, educate the people, and unify the culture. Isolation 
allows Iberians to retain solidarity and assimilate new-found 
cultures at a comfortable rate. Indeed, people of Iberia's coastal 
regions encounter various cultures and accept what they 
consider the best parts of each. Of these cultural traits, the most 
valued move inland on roads laid by the Romans, spreading 
from cities into rural areas. 
The Magi of Iberia are representative of the peninsula's 
isolation-invasion dichotomy. Iberia's first wizards, belonging 
to the Cult of Mercury, came in the age of conquest, marching 
along side Roman armies, helping to establish a system of rule. 
With the fall of Rome the priests of Mercury diminished but 
never completely disappeared. The Roman tradition therefore 
lived on in only a few individuals. 
The Order of Hemes emerged in Iberia much the way 
Mercury had. Flambeau led the invasion into Iberia and 
established the rule of the Order. However, where Magi 
elsewhere in Mythic Europe sought to flee the restrictions of 
mundane society, the first Iberian Covenants relished mun- 
dane society, being founded in or near cities. Only after 
founding urban Covenants did Hermetic Magi move into the 
interior, traveling on Roman roads. Many Magi found their 


--- Page ---

BIBLIOGRAPHY 
w - i  
8 CHAPTER ONE: 
metropolitan lives incompatible with the lives of surrounding 
people. Thus, more in keepingwith the rest of Mythic Europe's 
Magi, Iberia's wizards moved into rural areas, seeking places 
where studies could go unintenupted. Once there, Magi 
became independent, relying less and less upon the rest of the 
Order. Indeed, many advocated a break from the Order, but 
followers of Flambeau, always numerous in the Tribunal, kept 
the idea from becoming reality. Without actually breaking 
from the Order the Tribunal became, over time, one of the most 
independent. 
It is in this prison-like land of a fiery people that characters 
now find themselves, perhaps as inhabitants of the land, 
contributing to its nature, or as travelers, experiencing the 
land's unique nature firsthand. 
Jaime Vicens Vives, Approaches to the History of Spain, 
translated and edited by Joan Connelly Ullman, Los Angeles, 
1967. 
Charles E. Chapman, Ph.D., AHistory ofspain, founded on 
the Historia de Espafia y de la Civihzacibn Espaiiola of Rafael 
Altamira, New York, 1918.. 
Louis C. West, Imperial Roman Spain, The Objects of T r d ,  
Oxford, 1929. 
Charles Morris, Historical Tales, The Romance of Reality, 
Spanish, New York, 1898. 
Philip K. Hitti, History ofthe Arabs, From Earliest Times to I 
the Present, New York, 1970. 
John A. Crow, Spain, The Root and the Flower, An Interpre- 
tation of Spain and the Spanish People, Berkeley, Los Angeles, 
London, 1963,1975,1985. 
David Nicolle, Ph.D, El Cid and the Reconquista, 1050- 
1492, London, 1988. 
 AUTHOR!^ NOTE 
This book has been written for two types of people. For 
experienced A r S  Ma@a players I 
to present a cohesive 
picture of the Iberian Tribunal. The material contained herein 
should be consistent with material previously published by 
Whlte Wolf, while expanding in detail and color. For begin- 
ning Ars Magica players I hope this book evokes Iberia's 
splendor, to compel your characters to visit there. There is 
much more about Iberia than can be contained in a book this 
size. Think of this book as an enticement to visit your local 
library and delve further into the history and folklore of Iberia. 
Terence Wise, Armies of the Crusades, London, 1978. 
Gabriel Jackson, The Making of Medieval Spain, Norwich, 
1972. 
John Ormsby, The Poem of The Cid, A Translationfrom the 
Spanish with Introduction and Notes, New York, 1915. 
Antonio Jimenez-Landi, The Treasure of the Muleteer and 
other Spanish Tales, translated by Paul Balckburn, New York, 
1974. 
Idries Shah, Tules of the Dervishes, New York, 1970. 
Hannah Lynch, Toledo, the Story ofan Old Spanish Capital, 
London, 1898. 


--- Page ---

4
-
A
 
r-- 


--- Page ---

efore Iberia was aifhcted with mfection from the 
lands of Africa, and even before she was in- 
vaded by German hbarians, the peninsula was 
occupied by the Carthagmiam. However, that 
occupationled to ocipationby Rome. S i h a  procession offoreign 
lords is just the beginning of Iberia’s tale of isolation and invasion. 
THE PUNIC WARS 
The Iberian peninsula first took a large part in world affairs 
following the First Punic War (3rd century B.C.). It was at this 
time that the Barca family of Carthage, whom some called 
demon breeders, moved onto the peninsula. The Romans had 
supplanted the Carthagenians on the island of Sicily and the 
Barcas seduced the Carthagenians into believing that by more 
firmly establishing themselves on the Iberian peninsula, they 
would be able to mount a counterattack on Rome. Carthage 
invaded the peninsula in 236 B.C. and began conquest of the 
land. They established rpany forts and cities (it is from the 
tainted Barca family that Barcelona gets its name) and began to 
intermarry with the native people. 
Under the leadership of Hannibal the Carthagenians made 
plans for the conquest of Rome itself. Hannibal, though less 
than 30 years old, was a brilliant and accomplished soldier 
(whether his ability was natural or bargained for is a matter of 
speculation). In 219 B.C., Hannibal laid siege to Saguntum, a 
city under Rome’s protection, and captured it after a bitter 
struggle. This act led to declaration of war with Rome in 218. 
Hannibal’s success against the Romans and his eventual 
defeat is well known. m i l e  he marched across land with his 
army, Rome was already striking backagainst the Carthagenians. 
Gnaeus and Publius Cornelius Scipio were sent to the peninsula 
by sea to detain Hannibal from his march. They arrived to find 
him departed and began expelling the Carthagenians from 
Iberia. The Carthagenians rallied to Hannibal’s brother, 
Hasdrubal, and were able to defeat the Scipios in 211 B.C., 
killing the Scipios in battle. Hasdrubal hurried to the aid of lus 
brother in Italy but was defeated at the battle of Metaurus. The 
Romans sent Publius Cornelius Scipio, son of the man lulled in 
Iberia, to renew the war on the peninsula. This Scipio captured 
the city of Cartago-Nova, the Cathagenian capital, and began 
rule of the peninsula. He ingratiated himself to the natives with 
generous acts, including declining the “gift” of a virginal bride. 
Shortly after his victory in Cartago-Nova, Scipio struck upon a 
brilliant plan. He incorporated the peninsula intohe Roman 
empire, naming it the colony of Hispania. 
. 
ROMAN DOMINATION 
The first portions of the peninsula to fall to Roman 
conquest were the eastern and southern, bordering on the 
Mediterranean. These areas had already seen the culture of the 
Phenicians and Greeks, and had long been trading with 
various Mediterranean cultures. The people of the coasts were 
accustomed to differing viewpoints and, while there were some 
uprisings among the cities of the region, they soon settled 


--- Page ---

under Roman domination. It’s been suggested that coastal 
natives submitted too easily, as if by the work of some control- 
ling force. . . 
The conquest of the central plateau regions, in contrast, 
was far from easy for the Romans. For over 150 years, the 
inland’s secluded tribes stayed true to their old ways and defied 
Rome. Some of these people were mere shepherds and sha- 
mans, who had constant contact with ancestors and the old 
ways themselves. The inland tribes’ success against the Ro- 
mans lay more in their knowledge of the land than in any 
military genius. The natives formed small bands and am- 
bushed Roman columns, disappearing into the hills before the 
Romans could strike back. It is from this era and land that the 
wordguenillu, meaning “little war,” comes. These tactics took 
their toll on the morale of the Roman legions. Eventually, 
Roman soldiers refused to fight if sent to serve on the peninsula, 
forcing Roman governors to acknowledge the independence of 
small native nations. Not until 33 B.C. did the Romans fully 
subdue the peninsula, usurping the old spirits with foreign 
deities. 
The main arteries of Hispania’s organization were its 
roads. Initially built by the Romans as trade routes, the roads 
carried wealth, stolen from the peninsula, to ports so it could 
be transported to Rome. Over 13,000 miles of roads criss- 
crossed Hispania, connecting inland cities with rivers and the 
coast. Miheral wealth from the mines of the interior first 
captured Roman attention. Hispania’s agricultural products 
soon outstripped the importance of mining, though. Grain, 
wine, honey, and olive oil were all exported to meet Rome’s 
demands. 
Roads connecting Hispania’s cities had a secondary effect: 
while commerce passed to the coasts, culture moved inland. 
The great wealth of the province led many greedy Roman 
aristocrats to purchase land there. Many built villas along the 
Guadalquivir river and acquired grand estates. The Romans 
entering Hispania introduced a privileged social class, the 
seniores. These aristocrats dominated the peninsula, control- 
ling not only agriculture but also mining and exporting com- 
panies. Beneath these kind were masses of farmers who 
performed the real labor of the land. These humiliores were 
often treated no better than slaves and the Spanish tradition of 
banditry arose from conflicts between the two classes (and also 
as a result of shamans attempting to usurp the foreign gods, to 
restore veneration of ancient spirits). 
Between the two opposed classes were city dwellers. They 
were enchanted with, almost compelled to, the culture and 
elegance of the Romans (enchanted and compelled being 
appropriate terms). They imitated and assimilated Roman 
culture and passed it onto the rural farmers and shepherds. 
Through the cities, the language and religion of Rome con- 
quered the peninsula as assuredly, and as slowly, as her legions 
did. The system of roads served as the skeleton on which the 
colony was built. 
Gradually, the people of Hispania lost (or were drained of) 
spirit and became fully Romanized. The colony was considered 
the flower of the Empire and many left to study at Rome (where 


--- Page ---

the Dark Ways had particular strength). Emperors Trajan and 
Hadrian, though of Roman blood, were raised on the peninsula 
and Emperor Marcus Aurelius was of genuine Hispanic blood. 
Furthermore, the people of the colony distinguished them- 
selves as poets and philosophers. Indeed, in the 13th century 
House Criamon prizes many of the complex poems written by 
these people, claiming the poems embody the people’s fury, 
and even immortal spirits! The young people of Hispania also 
looked to the glory of Rome with longing eyes and became 
increasingly Roman. In A.D. 212, Emperor Carcalla recog- 
nized the contributions and attitudes of the Hispanian people 
by granting her cities full citizenship, with all privileges that 
entailed. In effect, the people of the peninsula were offered full 
access to Rome’s decadence, the better for Hell to claim corrupt 
souls. 
COMING OF 
CHRISTIANITY 
Just as roads and cities served to spread Roman culture, 
law, and language across the peninsula, so did this network 
serve the first missions of the Gospel. Christianity reached the 
coast of Hispania in the middle of the 1st century. The Apostle 
James the Greater, son of Zebedee, arrived with a mission to 
spread the new religion. For six years he wandered the 
peninsula, baptizing people with a scallop shell. (Rumors that 
the shell still lies somewhere in Iberia abound, and some 
speculate that this “shell” was, paradoxically, the Holy Grail.) 
While in Saragossa, James received a vision of the Virgin Mary 
(who was alive at the time) on a pedestal between two choirs of 
angels. On the spot of his vision he founded the first Christian 
church in Iberia. It is here above all places in Mythic Europe 
that prayers to Saint Mary receive the greatest response, with 
several hundred cherubim and seraphim attending those who 
honor the Virgin. Shortly after founcllng the church, James 
returned to Jerusalem and was beheaded by King Herod. James 
was the first of the twelve Apostles to be martyred. 
James’s devotees embalmed his body and boarded a ship 
returning to Iberia. They reached Iberia in a week, blessed with 
miraculous winds, and disembarked on the northern coast. 
James’s followers carried his body inland and buried him. The 
tomb became the site of pilgrimage for early Christians until 
Roman persecution of the new religion became too severe. The 
site of James’s tomb was lost and forgotten. It still lies 
undisturbed. The person who h d s  it, and who is truly 
penitent, may gain insight into the actual resting place of the 
Grail. 
Native people living in Hispania’s cities partook of Roman 
culture but were excluded, by position, place and former 
devotion rather than choice, from the true spirituality of the 
Imperial cults. The Imperial religion served the aristocrats and 
businessmen but had little application for commoners. Chris- 
tianity therefore grew in Hispania by opposing Roman cults. 
Spiritually satisfied with the new doctrine, city dwellers passed 
it on to the rural population. The urban masses and peasantry 
flocked to the new religion. Soon, an organization was needed 
to deal with ever-increasing followers. To organize their 
religion the priests of the new religion adopted the structure of 
the Roman government. By the end of the 4th century, the 
Church in Hispania had evolved from a policy of separation 
from Roman ideals to absorption of them, using them to further 
its cause. Rome accepted Christianity as the official religion of 
the Empire in the 4th century. As the Empire began to crumble, 
the Church assured that the Roman tradition of law and 
organization outlived the Empire. Whether that preservation 
upheld the good of Roman law or preserved its inherent evils 
is another question. 
VISIGOTHIC 
KINGS 
Toward the end of the 3rd century, the Roman Empire 
began to face constant pressure from “barbarian” tribes on its 
borders. The province of Hispania felt this pressure less than 
other areas. The beginning of the fifth century, however, 
shocked the people of Hispania from their Roman reverie. The 
Vandals, the Alans, and a group of Suevians entered Hispania 
in the year 409. Hispania looked to Rome for deliverance, but 
Rome, with military pressures elsewhere and political strife at 
home, removed her troops and generally neglected the prov- 
ince. The people of Hispania were not able to field an adequate 
defense against the Germanic peoples. The invaders split 
Hispania among themselves. Large portions of the peninsula, 
even some of those conquered by Germanic tribes, still re- 
mained subject to Rome. Rome’s neglect, however, left the 
peoplewithadefeatedattitude; they hadlooked to Rome foraid 
and Rome had turned its back on them. This set the stage for 
the next invasion. 
In the third century, Visigothic people migrated from 
Scandinavia to the region of the Black Sea, bringing their 
magical powers derived from the Norse Gods. Facing pressure 
from the Huns to the East, they moved into the Roman Empire. 
Long contact with the Romans led the Visigoths to accept 
Christianity; only a few preserved Odm’s ways. Though 
initially converted to the orthodox form, they later converted 
to the Arian form, putting them in conflict with Rome’s 
emperors. This conflict gradually escalated into war and, in 
410, the Visigoths sacked the city of Rome, an event unparal- 
leled in 800 years of Roman history. With new leadership, the 
Visigoths left Rome and invaded the area of modem France. 
Once there, they made peace with the Romans and were 
allowed to remain as dependant allies of the Empire. 
The Visigoths, however, did not intend to remain subser- 
vient to Rome. They used their status as “allies” to set up a vast 
empire for themselves. As part of their agreement with Rome, 
thevisigoths entered Hispania to combat the Germanic peoples 
remaining there. 
Visieothic Rule 
The Visigoths enjoyed success in their military endeavors 
on the peninsula. Before long, Visigothic chieftains, havingrun 
out of enemies, fell to the temptation of greed and fought 


--- Page ---

amongst themselves for land. This conquest of Hispania 
followed a pattern exactly opposite to those of earlier invasions. 
The Visigoths first conquered the hgh central plateau and the 
cities of the coasts remained in contact with the legitimate 
Empire (Rome and then Constantinople). 
The Visigothic conquests were distinguished by their 
tremendous violence, almost as an outlet for pent-up evil, 
particularly against those that did not share the Arian faith. The 
violence of the Visigoths was not limited to the conquered. 
Many Visigothic kings ascended the throne after the preceding 
lung was assassinated. Ironically, that violence was eventually 
contained to Iberia as the Franks drove the Visigoths out of 
Gaul, forcing them to relocate their capital to Spain’s Toledo. 
The Franks condemned the Visigoths to live in the very prison 
they had created. 
During this period of isolated Visigoth rule, the orthodox 
Church was re-established in Hispania. The change marked a 
victory for the natives, for their adopted religion had defeated 
that of the occupiers. However, the Visigoths retained tempo- 
ral power, afflicting the peasants with grueling labor under a 
decadent regime of foreign nobles. 
Change toward Christian orthodoxy did have its detri- 
ments, particularly for those with no Christian ties. Under the 
Arian Visigoths, Jews were treated fairly and perpetuated the 
sin of profit. However, under orthodoxy the Jews suffered from 
heavy taxes and were afflicted by anti-Semitic laws. There are 
legends of Jews striking back against the later Visigoths, using 
the magic of the Kabbalah to undermine power and weaken 
each successive lung. Maybe in their calculations the Jews 
recognized the coming of the Saracens, under whom they 
realized they would be treated fairly, so they sought to pave the 
way for the Africans’ arrival. . 
Intrigue and Succession 
ThehighestpointinVisigothicruleof Iberiacamewith the 
election of Wamba as king. Wamba first refused the throne but 
the miracle of a dry staff sprouting leaves and bearing fruit 
convinced him to listen to the arguments of other nobles. After 
hearing their reasons for electing him lung, he still declined. 
Only when one brandished a sword and threatened death did 
Wamba accept the crown. 
On the throne, Wamba proved to be the best of Visigothc 
kings. Many nobles, seeing how Wamba first refused the 
throne, thought they might gain advantage by defylng him. 
Wamba soon proved himself an able commander, though, 
defeating various uprisings. He also demonstrated that his age 
granted him wisdom. After quelling a particularly fierce 
rebellion, he had the head of its leader shaved into a tonsure. 
Priests at the time were forbidden to rule or serve as war 
chieftains. Wamba had effectively exiled the rebellious noble 
from further leadership, without depriving him of his life and 
making h m  a martyr for further uprisings. 
Wamba is most remembered for his construction at the 
city of Toledo. He added a second, larger wall to the city. The 
gates of Toledo still bear the inscription, “ErexitfautareDea Rex 
inclytus urbem Wurnbu,” “To God and King Wamba the city 
owes its walls.” He also built a great palace. He selected an 
ancient cave for the site, deepening it with many rooms, and 
building a palace atop it. The entrance to the cave he secured 
with a huge iron gate and lock. Within the cave Wamba placed 
a secret talisman and told all his advisors that while the cave 
remained undisturbed, the country would be safe from inva- 
sion. 
Wamba is also remarkable among Visigothic kings for 
being one of the few not dethroned by assassination. A young 
noble prepared a sleeping potion and slipped it into the king’s 
wine. While Wamba slept, the young noble shaved Wamba’s 
head into a tonsure, turning the king’s former tactic against 
him. The next day the young noble revealed his deed and 
claimed to have done it at Wamba’s request. Wamba cared for 
the crown no more now than when it had been forced upon 
him, and retired to the life of a monk. The young noble was 
crowned after producing documents according to whch Wamba 
had abdicated the throne to him. Many nobles believed the 
documents forged but could not prove it. What was not 
known, since the nobles did not investigate, was that the 
documents’script was written in an ink of brimstone, delivered 
to the rebel by demons of Hell. Given his Infernally-inspired 
rise to power, the new king led a life of decadent luxury and 
retired to the Inferno upon his demise. 
Some years after Wamba’s rule, a new king, Roderic, was 
brought to the throne. Roderick reign was short lived, but 
spawned many legends. Since the time of Wamba, whenever 


--- Page ---

his destruction. The woman’s husband and father were so 
enraged at Roderic’s actions they invited the Berber tribes to 
c
4
d
 
CHAPTER Two: MYTHIC 
HISTORY 
invade Iberia, assisting them in destroying the King. 
with the Arab invasion of Iberia in 71 1. 
Whichever legend is to be believed, Roderic’s reign ended 
THE TRIUMPH 
OF ISLAM I 
Visigothic kings ascended the throne they commissioned a 
lock to be made. Eachlock was placed on the iron gate guarding 
Wamba’s talisman. Roderic, however, declared Wamba’s warn- 
ing a jest. His advisors warned him to leave the gate secure but 
Roderic was fired by curiosity. Perhaps the demons who had 
years before infected the throne now had their way with 
Roderic, inspiring his thoughts toward sin. 
Roderic ordered all locks removed from the gate. He and 
a train of followers entered the chambers, wandering from 
room to room. Some were empty, some supposedly held 
treasures. Finally, as rumor has it, they came to a large room 
at the deepest recess of the cave. What that cave held has never 
been told, or those who witnessed it refused to reveal their 
discovery. Some speculate the walls were painted with a mural 
of strangely dressed horsemen, some bareheaded with locks of 
black hair hanging over their foreheads. They apparently 
carried scimitars and lances with fluttering pennons. Others 
add that in the center of the room was Wamba’s medallion, 
inscribed: “Whenever this asylum is violated, the spell contained 
in these words shall be broken and the people shown in the mural 
shall invade the land and overturn the throne ofits kings. The rule 
of the Goths shall end and the whole country shall fall into the 
hands of heathens. ” 
Regardless of what was found in that chamber, the king 
and his court fled the place in horror and Roderic commanded 
the gates sealed again. Even in the 13th century the caves under 
Toledo’s palace lie sealed. No native would dare penetrate 
them, for fear of what lies beyond. However, foreigners might 
seek the secrets that lie there. Indeed, crusaders who have since 
arrived to Iberia have sought to penetrate the place. Each has 
mysteriously disappeared. Among the darkest circles of the 
Church it is rumored that a secret order of Spanish Templars 
guards the caves. They dispose of everyone who dares enter. So 
insular is this group of guardians, it is quietly rumored, the 
Devil has crept among them, and they now guard the gates for 
reasons all their own. 
Yet another legend of Roderic’s reign, also explaining the 
invasion of the Saracens, describes the daughter of CountJulian 
of Cadiz. A fair and wise woman, the Count’s daughter had 
many suitors and her father could not choose between them. 
The daughter, whose name is lost in the mists of history, 
declared that she would marry a man who could control the 
powers of earth and air, and who could call upon the djinn to 
perform special deeds. Only two suitors took up her challenge 
and to them she set a test. The first was to build an aqueduct 
to bring water from the mountains to Cadiz. The other was to 
produce a talisman to protect Cadiz from invasion. Whomever 
performed their task first would win her hand. The aqueduct 
builder finished first and married the daughter, while the 
talisman maker disappeared. (Actually, the latter attempted to 
steal Wamba’s talisman from beneath Toledo’s palace and was 
never seen again.) The daughter, now married, became a 
handmaid to Roderic’s wife. Roderic, so the legend goes, 
disgraced the fair woman. Some say he was possessed by the 
spirit of the woman’s second suitor, who pined for his beloved 
even after death, but also sought revenge against her for causing 
The Visigoth dynasty‘s Mficulties came at a particularly 
bad time. A wave of Islamic conversion had recently swept 
across northern Africa. With fiery devotion to their faith the 
Arabs turned desirous eyes to the wealth of the Iberian penin- 
sula. They had conducted piracy and raids against coastal cities 
in the past, but new unification offered greater rewards. 
The leader of Arab forces in the region, Milsa, sent his chief 
general, Tarik ibn-Ziyiid, and a force of 7,000 to take several 
southern Iberian cities. Tiriklanded near the mighty rock that 
guards the southern strait, and that rock still bears his name, 
Gebel Tank (Gibraltar), meaning “Mount of TPrik.” He 
plundered the countryside unopposed, gathering wealth for his 
leader. Roderic could not gather an effective defending force 
until the summer of that year. Near the river Guadilbeca, 
Roderic gathered a force nearly twice the size of TPrik’s. In the 
ensuing battle, the Arab forces prevailed despite the odds. In 
the end, Roderic disappeared from the battlefield. If he was 
slain there, his body was never found (for more information on 
Roderic’s fate, see Islam’s Magic, in Chapter Three). 
In the face of the Vkigoth’s disarray, Tank quickly sent 
forces to capture the most important cities. Many fell without 
a fight. Cordova and Santiago provided the greatest resistance, 
the first led by one of Roderic’s followers, Pelistes, the second 
protected by the blessing of Saint James. Toledo, capital of the 
Visigoths, was delivered to the invaders by its Jewish residents. 
By the end of the summer, Tank had conquered nearly half 
of the Iberian peninsula. One of the greatest treasures captured 
was the legendary Table of Solomon. The top of the Table was 
formed of a single emerald, and rumored to reveal the fates in 
its lucid depths. It stood on 365 feet, each made from a single 
emerald. Tank searched Toledo for the famous Table but was 
unable to find it. He sent horseman along the roads to make 
sure this prize had not escaped him. The Bishop of Toledo had 
fled with the Table but Tank’s horseman soon found h. 
MQsa, Tank‘s commander, was jealous of his underling’s 
success. He feared that word of TPrik’s great accomphshments 
‘would reach the Caliph of Damascus and that Tank would be 
promoted. Accordingly, MQsa, with 10,000 troops, crossed the 
brief stretch of sea between Africa and Iberia. With his force 
MQsa attacked the great cities that Tiirik had avoided. After a 
few victories, MQsa moved to meet his follower. TPrik knew 
MQsa would claim the glory of conquering the peninsula and 
also feared that MQsa would present the Table of Solomon to 
the Caliph, claiming to have won it himself. Tank therefore 
broke off one of the Table’s numerous feet and secreted it as 
proof that he won the Table. 


--- Page ---

J 
4 
4 
Tank met MQsa near Toledo. Milsa immediately impris- 
oned Tank and had him whipped for refusing orders to halt his 
advances. Moss tookcommandof the entire invading forceand 
continued the conquest of Spain. The Visigoths, deprived of 
any central leadership, quickly fell to the Moslem invaders. 
Many areas pledged their fealty to MQsa to be spared from 
battle. By the end of 713 MQsa held all the lands of the 
peninsula, save for a strip along the Pyrenees (in the vicinity of 
Santiago). 
Also in that year, Caliph al-Walld recalled Mtisa, ordering 
him to return to Damascus to face charges of acting indepen- 
dently of his superior, the very charge for which MQsa had 
whipped Tank. In preparing to present himself to the Caliph, 
MQsa gathered all the treasures of the newly conquered land. 
Chief among these was the Table of Solomon. He found that 
one of its legs had been broken off and ordered it to be replaced 
with one of solid gold. 
Marching to Damascus, MQsa brought with him an enor- 
mous entourage carrying the Iberian booty he had won. The 
Caliph, seeing thevast treasure, praisedMasa for his enterprise. 
However, Tank, who had ridden to beat MQsa to Damascus, 
appeared before the Caliph and denounced MQsa, saying that 
it was he who had earned the treasures the Caliph saw before 
him. When asked for proof, Tank had the Table of Solomon 
brought forward. MQsa was asked if the Table was in its present 
condition when he found it. MQsa replied that it was. Tank 
then revealed the secreted leg, proving MQsa a liar. The Caliph 
assumed that all MQsa’s claims were false. MQsa was impover- 
ished and exiled from the Caliph’s lands, his sons in Iberia were 
killed, and he died a beggar. 
After much of Iberia was conquered, and the Arabs had 
reached the Pyrenees, their troubles truly began. An ill-fated 
foray into surrounding Mythic Europe resulted in a devastating 
defeat at Tours, by the hand of the Frankish King, Charles 
Martel, called “The Hammer.” So complete was the Christian 
victory that some mark the battle of Tours as the beginning of 
the Christian reconquest of Spain. 
To make matters worse, after defeat at Tours, Arab emirs 
(leaders) began to face internal difficulties. The North African 
Berbers, who made up a large portion of the invadmg army, 
apparently fell to Christian greed and became dissatisfied with 
the lands apportioned them. When the Berbers rebelled the 
Caliph dispatched Syrian soldiers to quell the uprising. The 
Berbers did not keep all their promises to victorious Syrian 
forces, though, andlaidsiege to Cordova, capturing the city and 
the government of the peninsula. 
The period that followed was one of the most turbulent in 
the history of the Iberian peninsula. In the space of only a few 
years several different Arabic governors ruled the Iberian 
province. The entire peninsula may have fallen to invasion, or 
to the re-establishment of Christian rule, if not for the fall of the 
Caliphate in Damascus. 
The Umawah Dvnastv 
J J  
J 
J 
In A.D. 750, the Umayyah family, who controlled the 
Caliphate in Damascus, was almost totally massacred. The 
‘Abassid family seized control of the government and ordered 
all Umayyahs put to death. Only a young son of the dynasty, 
‘Abd-al-Rahmh, was able to escape. 7 ‘Abd-al-Rahmiin fled, 
traveling west along the coast of Africa. He employed clever 
disguises to avoid the ‘Abbasid family’s spies. Reaching allies, 
he raised an army and invaded Iberia. The bickering Arab 
forces fell before the Umayyah‘s army, allowing the Caliph to 
solidib the peninsula. The strength of his rule was tested and 
proven when he was able to resist the alliance of Christian 
resistants and Franks under the command of Charlemagne. 
(Charlemagne’s resultant retreat through the Pyrenees and 
ambush by Basques is immortalized in Le Chansen de Roland, 
The Song of Roland) 
In the years and under rulers that followed ‘Abd-al- 
Rahmiin’s reign, Iberia again fell into unrest. Civil war ran high 
as rule of the land fragmented into regional pockets. Religious 
conflicts also arose, Arabic groups accusing others of straying 
from Allah. Furthermore, where Christians in Iberia were 
tolerated, and many began to adopt Moslem practices in their 
religion, a religious revolt arose. Zealous Christians called for 
the shuclung of Moslem strictures and went so far as to 
condemn Allah. By Moslem law these people had to be 
executed, but their deaths only spread their movement as the 
sacrificed were recognized as martyrs in the name of Christ. 
Establishment . 


--- Page ---

~ 
Legend of the Invasion 
When it was obvious that all was lost at Guadilbeca, the 
Visigoth Pelistes hastened to Cbrdova to f o r e  the city 
against the Arab invaders. Upon arriving he found he was 
left with but 400 guards to defend the city. Cordova’s 
defenses were strong, however, and even with that meager 
force, he could hold the city for many months. As the Arab 
army, under command of one of Tiirik’s generals, Magued, 
arrayed itself across the river from the city, Pelistes prepared 
his defenses and rallied his troops. 
A shepherd (and secretly a shaman of Hispania’s old 
ways), mistreated by the Visigothic nobles as many of the 
lower class were, came to the Arab force and told Magued 
of a way to enter the city. On a stormy night, he led the 
invaders across a ford in the river. Once they reached the 
far bank, the rain turned to hail and drowned out the noise 
of the intruders’ armor and horses. The shaman led the 
Arabs to a place where the battlements had broken and the 
wall had partially fallen. A fig tree grew nearby, its branches 
stretched towards the breach. A nimble soldier climbed the 
tree and topped the wall. He unwound his turban and 
lowered it to assist the others. 
The small force made its way to the city‘s gatehouse. 
The storm had forced sentries indoors and the invaders 
found the gate unguarded. Quickly, they opened the gate 
for their waiting comrades. Though the alarm was raised, 
the Arabs entered the city and cut down all resistance. 
Pelistes and the most able soldiers of the defending force fell 
back to the Church of Saint George. The church, like many 
of its time, was a large and solid fortress, as well as a place 
of worship. There, with an ample supply of food and a 
secret source of water, the remaining defenders held out for 
many months. Eventually, the Arabs found and urinated in 
the refugees’ water source. Themen within grew desperate. 
Pelistes mounted the last horse the survivors kept alive 
and armed himself with lance and sword. He turned to his 
men and told them he would sally forth in search of aid, 
promising, if he found none, to return and die with hls 
comrades. Pelistes set forth at dawn, sprinted through the 
open gate and galloped toward the mountains beyond the 
city. Magued, who had been leading a foraging party, rode 
after Pelistes and chased him for several hours. As they 
entered the mountains, Pelistes’s horse stumbled and fell, 
throwing the warrior into a ravine. Magued followed him 
and called for Pelistes’s surrender. Pelistes, face covered in 
blood, drew his sword and prepared to defend himself. 
The two warriors, Visigoth and Arab, fought at length 
in the isolated ravine. Both equally skilled, their battle 
lasted for hours. During breathing spells, Magued and 
Pelistes gazed with wonder and admiration upon each 
other. At length, the ground was covered with their blood, 
their shields and armor hacked and rent. Pelistes gave one 
final blow and fell senseless to the ground. Magued now 
faced the difficult task of transporting his valiant captive 
back to the city. Fortunately, a band of Arab horseman had 
pursued their leader and were able to carry the fallen 
Pelistes back to Cordova on a spare horse. 
When the remainder of Pelistes’s troops saw his sense- 
less form carried back into the city, they rushed from their 
fortified church to rescue their fallen leader. Though they 
fought valiantly, the invaders quickly overwhelmed them 
and the entirevisigoth force was hlled or captured. Pelistes 
was cared for by physicians and soon regained his health. 
Thus these devout Christians followed in the footsteps of 
Christ and his disciples. The spread of Christianity back into 
Iberia began in earnest. 
The Caliphate of Cordova 
Succeeding Arabic leaders had some success reorganizing 
Iberia’s Moslem invaders, and even turned to challenge increas- 
ing Christian unification. However, it was under ‘Abd-al- 
Rahmitn I11 that the Caliphate of Cbrdova, the Moslem govern- 
ment of Iberia, truly prospered. ‘Abd-al-Rahmitn I11 turned 
occupied Iberia into the richest and most powerful state in 
Mythic Europe. Indeed, Cbrdova was rivaled only by 
Constantinople andBagh&d. It enjoyed miles of pavedstreets, 
lit by lights from adjoining houses. With 70 libraries and 
numerous bookshops, Cordova was one of the intellectual 
centers of the world, and the most accessible to Myhc Europe. 
In fact, nearly all of its residents, like most Moslems throughout 
the Caliphate, could read and write. Under ‘Abd-al-Rahrniin 
111’s successor, there were 27 free schools, and these schools 
welcomed both men and women as students. While women 
elsewhere were forbidden from learning, some women in the 
Caliphate became notable for their accomplishments in the 
fields of literature and the sciences. It was such rule that gave 
the Moslems their reputation for enlightenment and culture 
(though only amongst the learned of Mythlc Europe; others 
still saw the Moslems as demonic heathens). 
In later years more free schools were opened and a univer- 
sity was founded in Cbrdova. Professors from the east were 
even invited to teach there. Al-Hakam 11, one of the succeedmg 
Moslem leaders, was a bibliophile. He had agents scour 
bookshops in Alexandria, Damascus, and Baghdad in search of 
manuscripts. His personal library totaled some 400,000 vol- 
umes, the titles of which alone filled a catalogue of 44 volumes. 
Not surprisingly, Moslem scholarly endeavors inevitably 
benefitted industry. Eastern advances in agriculture allowed 
the introduction of rice, cotton, oranges, pomegranates and 
other crops into the fertile southeastern portions of the penin- 
sula. Furthermore, the raising of silkworms and making of silk, 
originally a monopoly of the Chinese, was introduced by the 
Moslems and it thrived in the region. Toledo, like Damascus, 
was known the world over for the quality of its swords, and the 
c 


--- Page ---

art of tanning and embossing leather rose to.new heights in 
Iberia. The Caliphate received most of its revenue from import 
and export duties on these and other industries. 
However, regardless of its relative enlightenment, even the 
Caliphate of Cordova fell, both to internal squabbles and to 
wars against both Christians and Arabs. In the Caliphate’s place 
arose city-states ruled by reyes de taiJus, or party kings. These 
petty states warred with each other and with growing Christian 
states to the north. The city-states were rescued briefly on two 
occasions by Berber invasions. The first was led by the 
Almoravids, in 1086. These harsh desert warriors stayed past 
their welcome and proceeded to conquer lands of Iberia for 
themselves. However, the Almoravids quickly succumbed to 
the pleasures and decadence of Iberian civilization and were 
ousted by the Almohads in 1145. Shortly after the Almohad 
arrival the Christian states to the north woke from their own 
internal squabbling and began serious reconquest of Iberia. 
The story of the Moors’ last sigh belongs to the Christians and 
is told under Reconquista, below. 
ACCOMPLISHMENTS 
OF 
ARAB IBERIA 
Though the Christians, through the Reconquista, eventu- 
ally dominate the Iberian peninsula, Moslem inhabitants have 
a profound effect on 13th century Spanish society. As de- 
scribed above, the Arabs bring enlightenment to the muddle of 
Mythic Europe. Indeed, the ancient learning of the Greeks, as 
well as influential thought from India and Arabia, reach the 
minds of Mythic European intellectuals through the peninsula. 
One of the most important contributions of the Moslems 
is paper. The methods of industrially manufacturing paper that 
the Moslems learned from the Far East allow them to produce 
books in quantities heretofore unknown. Without the political 
assemblies or theaters of the Romans or Greeks, the Moslems 
rely on books as means to spread knowledge. Book markets 
grace the largest cities of Iberia and many distinguished nobles 
have private libraries. Beyond simple academic topics, the 
residents of Iberia enjoy literature and poetry. The period of the 
party kings is particularly fruitful in literature, and tales that 
flourish in 13th century Mythic Europe bear a distinctive 
Arabic feel. Arabic poetry, known for its beauty and lascivious- 
ness, leaves its mark on the romantic tales that arise in southern 
France. During the collapse of the Caliphate, many volumes 
are lost, but the book markets of Cordova, Seville, and Granada 
thrive for over two centuries. 
Magi in search of scholarly works are best suited to look for 
them in Iberia. Indeed, as the Moslems have wizards of their 
own, even mystical texts might be available for trade. At the 
least, scholars in Iberia who are able to read and write both 
Arabic and Latin stand to make a fortune writing and copying 
books. Indeed, a Covenant in Iberia might make its income by 
this means. 
Legends of the Arabs 
Among the greatest Arabic leaders in Iberia were twin 
regents under Caliph Hisum 11. These regents were 
Sultanah Subh and Muhammad ibn-abi-‘Amir. Under 
these two, HisMm met with victories against Christian 
states to the north. His victories were so great that he was 
granted the honorific title al-MunsGr bi-Alhh, “rendered 
victorious through the aid of Allah.” Through al-MansQr‘s 
military campaigns, the Caliphate of Cordova reached an 
apogee of power. Al-Mansfir sacked Barcelona in 985, 
razed the city of Leon and made that kingdom a tributary 
province, and even demolished the church of Santiago de 
Compestela in 997. The doors of that church, which had 
been a shrine visited by pilgrims from all over Mythic 
Europe, were incorporated into a mosque in Cordova and 
the church’s bells were used as lamps in Moslem edifices. In 
1002 al-MansQr died in the field, as he wished to, on the way 
back from his 50th campaign. Buried with him in his coffin 
I was the dust which had accumulated on his coat of mail 
during his 50 campaigns. On hearing of $-Manstir’s death 
I a Christian monk wrote, “In 1002 died Alrnanror, and was 
I buried in Hell. ” 
’ 
Among those Magi who have devoted themselves to 
fighting for the Reconquista there is rumor of magical 
$roperties inherent in al-Mansfir’s armor. Tales tell that its 
dust is invested with not only the dust of 50 campaigns, but 
hith many pawns of Perdo vis arising from the destruction 
the armor has seen. Arabic sorcerers even claim there is 
I yarthly magic inherent in the armor, which may mean 
Terra” vis. Many Magi of Hermes search for al-MansQr’s 
armor. However, Moslem sorcerers are equally diligent in 
their protection of the armor. 
I 
I Moslem contributions also play a telling role in the harder 
sciences. . Geographical studies by Moslem scholars preserve 
the doctrine that the earth is spherical. Iberian scholars of the 
tidte, however, are more interested in the study of astrology. 
Tqe necessity of accurately determining the location of one’s 
birth in relation to the stars leads astrology to aid the develop- 
ment of astronomy. Iberian astronomers draw heavily on the 
asdrological works of Aristotle. They compose tables of the 
pdnets and other heavenly bodies, tables used by astronomers 
for centuries. Magi studying Moslem astrological and astro- 
nomical dscoveries might incorporate those discoveries into 
thiir magic, maybe even using such knowledge to exceed the 
ludar sphere! 
‘ The medical advances of Moslems in Iberia are well 
kniwn. Tota, the Queen Regent of Navarre defeated by ‘Abd- 
al-RahMn I11 in A.D. 939, later appeared in the Moslem’s court 
wilh her grandson, the ex-King of Leon, known as Sancho the 
Fat. The two sought Arabic medical advice. The Caliph’s 
phisicians were able to relieve Sancho of the excessive corpu- 
ledce which had cost him the crown of Leon. Physicians later 
ch{onicle the surgical knowledge of their time, and great works 
of pharmacy and herbalism are written by Iberian Moslems. 


--- Page ---

Characters in Iberia, like Tota, might find themselves at a loss 
to find a cure for a disease. Salvation might lie with Moslem 
surgeons and herbalists, but relying upon them requires a break 
from trahtional Christian doctrine, which forbids dissections 
and desecration of the human body. The question is, which is 
more valuable, continued life or religious devotion? 
Moslem philosophic thought after the fall of the Caliphate 
is best typified by the Sufis. This mystic branch of Islam 
flourished in the 1 lth and 12th centuries. The dervishes, as its 
teachers were called, traveled throughout the realm of Islam 
teaching with the stories they told. The most memorable Sufi 
in Iberia was ibn-‘Arabi, who espoused a phlosophy on the 
unity of existence. His doctrine’s central theme was that things 
pre-exist as ideas in the knowledge of God, whence they 
emanate and whither they return. The world is merely the 
outer aspect of God and between God and the universe there is 
no real difference. The true mystic, he believed, follows the 
inner light and will find God in all religions. His thoughts 
duenced nearly all Iberian Moslem mystics that followed. 
Given their insight into the universe as a single entity, Moslems 
might have understanding of the Empyreans, Heaven, Earth, 
and Hell, which operate behind all the universe’s powers (even 
though these are Christian inventions). Moslems might also 
understand the function of supernatural regio, and could offer 
their knowledge to characters who must journey beyond the 
conventions of the mortal world. 
The fall of Toledo in 1085 was a great blow to the Moslem 
government and led to its eventual defeat on the Iberian 
peninsula. After the city fell, however, it remained an impor- 
tant center for Arabic learning. In 1126 Archbishop Raymond 
initiated the founding of a school for translation in the city. 
From 1135 through 1284 a series of translators copy Moslem 
academic works into Latin. As word of the school spreads, 
scholars from as far away as the British Isles come to Toledo to 
study the works of Arabic masters. John of Seville, a Jew 
converted to Christianity, became the first of the renown 
translators of the Toledo school. From 1135-53 he translated 
works of arithmetic, astronomy, astrology, medicine, and 
philosophy. Another Jew, Abraham ben-Ezra of Toledo, be- 
came known as a cllstinguished biblical commentator and 
translated two treatises on astrology before his death in 1167. 
The most prolific of the translators, who worked in the Toledo 
school, was Gerard of Cremona who rendered into Latin over 
70 Arabic works, including Arabic versions of Ptolemy’s 
Almagest, Euclid’s Elements, and various works of Aristotle, 
Galen, and Hippocrates. 
The knowledge of the Arabs is passed on to the Western 
world through those scholars who come to the Toledo school. 
Michael of Chester, one of many scholars who visits from the 
British Isles, helps to complete the first Latin translation of 
Islam’s Koran. The French Abbot of Cluny, Peter the Vener- 
able, sponsors the translation. His abbey, which.houses a 
number of Iberian monks, becomes a major center for the 
1 


--- Page ---

Legends of the Reconquista 
It was during the early Reconquista that the cult of 
Santiago de Compestela was founded. In 813, a hermit saw 
a star over an oak tree on several successive nights. The 
vision was accompanied by celestial music. The local 
bishop was notified and, accompanied by several priests, 
investigated the hermit’s story. On the sight of the hermit’s 
vision the priests found an altar and the graves of three 
people, one of whom had been decapitated. The inscrip- 
tions upon the altar announced that this was the resting 
place of Saint James. The bishop secured funds from 
Alphonso 11, leader of the limited Christian forces of the 
time, to build a shrine over the site. The shrine and city that 
grew up around it became a pilgrimage site for Christians 
all over Mythic Europe. 
Whether this grave site is actually the burial altar of 
Saint James is open to conjecture. Some say, though not 
very loudly, that Alphonso I1 announced the discovery of 
James’s resting place to rally Christian spirit in Iberia and 
Mythic Europe. He may have hoped to rally aid to the cause 
of the reconquest, using Christian devotion as a tool. If 
Santiago de Compestela is not the true resting place of Saint 
James, all the cult’s works are invalidated and the value of 
the city as a pilgrimage site is undone. The Bishop of the city 
might even know James’s altar is a lie, but never lets it be 
known, and arranges to kill anyone who threatens to dispel 
the myth. Thus, people who find James’s real body may find 
themselves hunted by the Church. 
distribution of Arabic learning. Indeed, the intellectual growth 
that flourishes in southern France of the 13th century can be 
traced to the Iberian city of Toledo. 
Given all the advances in science, medicine, and philoso- 
phy made by the Arabs, the power of rational thought abounds 
in Iberia more than anywhere else in Mythic Europe. In fact, 
it’s in Iberia that Rational Auras first arise, and as Arabic 
thought and insight spreads northward and eastward, those 
Rational areas also spread. Thus, while scholars in Mythic 
Europe might unwittingly generate areas of Rational influence, 
the source of the phenomenon lies in Iberia and Arabia. Mythic 
European scholars are best served to travel to Iberia to truly 
meet their intellectual potential. And it is in Iberia that scholars 
outlawed elsewhere in Mythic Europe might receive accep- 
tance. It’s also true that Hermetic Covenants might find wider 
acceptance in Iberia than anywhere else. However, the recla- 
mationofSpanishlandsbyChristiancrusadersjeopardizes that 
freedom of thought as Moslem attitudes are supplanted with 
more traditional Christian ideals. Is it any wonder, then, that 
some southern Iberian Covenants support the Moslems against 
Christian reclamation? 
RECONQUISTA 
Note: For an indication of the success ofthe Reconquista, see 
The Christian Reconquest map. This map not only indicates the 
directions of reconquestfarces, and the sites of major battles, but 
also indicates the boundaries between Christian and Moslem 
forces. 
After the successful Moslem invasion of Iberia, many 
Visigoths retreated to the north. A particularly large group of 
refugees, led by nobles and clergy, settled in Austuria. They 
were not alone in opposing the invading army, though. Small 
pockets of resistance, scattered across the northern border of 
Iberia, stood like rocks above the Islamic tide. It was in 
Austuria, however, that the former rulers of the peninsula 
dreamed of ruling once again. 
Early in the 8th century, the activities of meager Christian 
forces, gathered in northern Iberia, were limited to raids that 
even now typify the region. The Christian nobility laid claim 
to Iberia, but could not take genuine action until the Moslem 
leadership faltered, and that only occurred many years after the 
Arabs had taken over. In alliance with Charlemagne, Christian 
rebels attempted to drive the Moslems southward, but their 
effort largely failed. However, the Franks built many castles in 
the Pyrenees, placed under Spanish command, intended to 
keep the Moors at bay in Iberia. Many of these castles still stand 
in the 13thcentury,somestillusedandexpandedupon. 
Others 


--- Page ---

are forgotten in their mountain retreats and are now occupied 
by all kinds of creatures or inbred group of defenders, still 
awaiting Moslem attack. 
Probably the isolated Christians’ greatest enemy was (and 
is) their own discord. Most of their efforts to reclaim Iberia 
were hampered by their own infighting. This dissent may have 
been fostered by the subtle magicks of Moslem sorcerers, or 
perhaps by Infernal manipulation. 
Turning the Tide 
r-d 
CHATTER Two: MYTHIC 
HIUORY 
degenkated into) decided on a plan that was actually the means 
of their own destruction. They invited the religiously comer- 
vative Almoravids of Morocco to come to their aid. The 
fierceness and religious intolerance of these desert warriors had 
never before been seen in Iberia. The Almoravids took over 
Moslem held lands and sparked in their Christian enemies the 
same hatred the Almoravids exhbited. For the first time the 
leaders of Christian Iberia saw the Moslems not only as 
usurpers of their land, but as a threat to their very faith. 
Toward the end of the first millennium, Christian forces in 
northern Iberia did manage to organize and gain some head- 
way. Heavy &cord among the Moslems had much to do with 
the Christians’ success. In this time the lands of Navarre and 
Leon spread considerably and strong Christian leaders emerged. 
Even when the Moslems did manage to score some victories, 
the borders between their lands changed very little. The spirit 
of the Christians, and their belief in their rulers and religion, 
had reached a point where they could not be beaten back by 
force of arms. Though the Caliphate might pillage lands to the 
north, it could no longer command the hearts of the people. 
Maybe Alphonso II’s plot to inspire his people with a false 
rallying point, at the “site” of Saint James’s burial, did have its 
desired effect. 
In further wars with the Moslems, the forces of Christian- 
ity became consolidated even further under the rule of Sancho 
111 of Navarre. He came to rule most Christian territories south 
of the Pyrenees and passed them on to his chldren. Under this 
unified reign remarkable social upheaval occurred. The people 
of Castile formed a society that was open, dynamic, and bold. 
They were willing to exchange shepherd’s crook and plowshare 
for sword and bow, to defend their land against invaders and to 
strike a blow for booty. While these small endeavors had little 
significance, they forged a warrior spirit among Castilians, a 
will to lead and an ambition to rule. From this spirit arose a. 
revolutionary country with no closed social classes. Any lowly 
field worker, if he could amass enough wealth, could raise 
himself to the rank of nobility. 
Where this open-minded form of government and social 
organization arose from is uncertain, but it smacked conspicu- 
ously of that freedom offered to commoners by Hermetic 
Covenants. Maybe the leaders of Castile took a lesson from 
their Hermetic allies and offered the common folk the same 
liberty and rights that Magi had, engendering the same loyalty 
that many of the Order receive. Such liberal attitudes still 
persist in Castile, allowing peasants freedom and the opportu- 
nity to raise themselves. Although this social liberty endangers 
the feudal system of other lands, drawing peasants from those 
lands, it raises the spirit of Castile, adding vigor to blows struck 
agaiEt the Moslems. For those of Mythic.Europe, particularly 
players’ characters, who are opposed to the oppression of the 
feudal system, Castile might offer hope for the future. 
Given the mounting unity and threat of the northern 
Christians, the Arabs realized their danger. In a panic, the 
leaders of the tuifus (the small kingdoms that the Arabs had now 
. 
CE 
El Cid 
The greatest of Iberia’s heroes rose from the turbulent 
period of the early Reconquista. Rodrigo Diaz de Vivar, known 
as el Cid de Campeador, was born near Burgos in A.D. 1043. 
His title came from the Arabic word sayyid, meaning “lord.” It 
‘ 
was first applied to him as a term of respect by his Moslem 
adversaries. In 1079, el Cid was sent to collect Sedle’s tribute. 
to the King of Castile. Upon his return, lords jealous of el Cid’s 
royal favor accused him of keeping a portion of the tribute for 
himself. King Alfonso VI banished el Cid in 1080. 
El Cid had four days to quit the country. He tried to outfit 
himself and his most loyal men for their long journey out of 
Castile. King Alfonso, however, forbade any of hls subjects to 
render aid to el Cid. Finally, camped in a field outside Burgos, 
el Cid hatched a brilliant and devious plan. He had two chests 
brought to him, filled with sand, and locked. El Cid then sent 
his lieutenant to the Jewish quarter of the city to bring two 
moneylenders. El Cid presented the chests as the treasure he 
was supposed to have stolen from the King. He offered to pawn 
the treasure to the moneylenders for 600 marks of silver if they 
agreed to keep the chests, untouched, for a year. The money- 
lenders agreed and el Cid had finances for hls journey. 
On his way out of Castile, el Cid left his wife and daughters 
in the care of the Abbot of San Pedro, paying the Abbot to pray 
for him daily. Outside the monastery, el Cid gathered his 
meager forces and prepared to leave on the morrow. In the 
night, however, a number of knights who had heard of el Cids 
plight joined him. When he looked over his forces in the 
morning, el Cid had over 300 followers. 
The first of el Cids conquests was the city of Castejon. He 
fell upon the city as the people were worhng in the fields. They 
had left the gate open and the few remaining wihn the walls 
offered little resistance to the warriors. The spoils from the 
conquest earned el Cid 15,000 marks. He kept but one fifth of 
this for himself and split the rest among his men. In this 
manner, el Cid garnered funds to supply hls troops and provide 
for their upkeep. They spent 15 weeks upon the plains of east- 
central Iberia, looting other cities held by the Moors and 
proceeding toward Saragossa. 
El Cid entered the service of the Moorish King of Saragossa. 
While in that service, he sometimes fought against Christian 
foes of his new lord but never against Alfonso of Castile. The 
King of Saragossa sent el Cid against the Kingdom of Valencia. 
For three years, el Cid captured cities around Valencia. Finally, 
I 
ii 
. 
he laid siege to Valencia itself and the city surrendered in 1090. 


--- Page ---

~~~ 
Legends of the Reconquista 
Ramiro 11, ruler of Le6n in the 10th century, was paid 
a visit by the Christian Count of Castile, F e d n  Gonzalez. 
On his visit F e d n  brought along a fine falcon and noble 
horse. Ramiro 11 expressed his admiration of the fine 
animals and asked if he could purchase them from the 
Count. F e d n  declined, saying the animals were not for 
sale, but if the King liked themsomuch, he couldhave them 
as a gift. The King replied that he would accept the gift but 
FernAn must accept a gift in return. Ramiro offered 1000 
marks of silver by a specific date and agreed that the sum 
would double every late day thereafter. F e d n  returned to 
his home in Castile and did not hear from the King for three 
years. When F e d n  presented the now astronomical debt 
to the King, Ramiro was forced to concede independence to 
the Castilian. 
Of the city‘s spoils, el Cid reserved his usual fifth and chose 100 
horses that he sent in tribute to King Alfonso. El Cid then set 
himself up as ruler of Valencia, in defiance of the Moslem King 
of Saragossa. 
With a stable home, el Cid was able to reunite his family. 
He recalled his wife and daughters from the monastery of San 
Pedro. His family arrived just as “King Yucef of Morocco” was 
attacking the city. El Cid rejoiced that his wife and daughters 
might see his valor in battle and led his band of nearly 4,000 
against a horde of 50,000. The Moorish force was routed but 
Yucef escaped. From the spoils of the battle, el Cid kept 200 
horses and Yucefs tent to send to Alfonso of Castile, with a 
messenger to relate his continued fealty to the King. 
Two minor counts (or Infmtes) ofcarrion heard of el Cid‘s 
deeds and desired to make some gain themselves. They 
planned to better their lot by marrying the daughters of el Cid, 
gaining handsome dowries. They traveled to Alfonso’s court 
and pleaded their case before the King. Alfonso agreed to their 
proposal and thought the marriages would be good for el Cid 
as well. He sent word back with el Cid’s messenger that the 
Infantes of Carrion desired his daughters in marriage. Upon 
hearing of the match, el Cid was not pleased, but acquiesced, 
giving his daughters’ hands to the King to do with as he would. 
Rodrigo Diaz was reunited with Alfonso at the wedding of 
his daughters. After the wedding, el Cid returned to Valencia 
with his new sons-in-law. While el Cid was sleeping in a 
courtyard, shortly after the marriage, a lion that had been a 
wedding present broke loose from its cage and terrorized the 
assembly. El Cids brave lieutenants stood in a circle around 
their sleeping leader, to protect him from the vicious beast. El 
Cid’s new sons-in-law, however, were terrified of the lion and 
fled. When el Cid awoke he advanced on the lion. When the 
lion saw him, it was abashed and bent its head. Rodrigo grasped 
the lion by its mane and dragged it back to its cage. Upon 
returning to the courtyard, he asked after his sons-in-law but 
none could find them. At last they were found, cowering in a 
closet. When they were presented to el Cid, his nobles laughed 
at their state. El Cid bade the nobles to stop their laughing but 
the lnjmtes of Carrion were insulted. 
Shortly thereafter, Valencia was besieged by another 
Moorish king. El Cid and his barons were eager for a fight and 
glad they would not have to ride far to gather their booty that 
day. The Injantes, instead, yearned to see their homeland again 
and begged el Cid to not make his daughters widows at their 
young age. Calls of cowardice eventually enraged the Injantes 
and they agreed to join the battle. El Cid carried the day, 
gaining his famous sword, Tizon (said to inspire courage and 
loyalty among a lord’s knights). 
After battle with the Moors the Infuntes of Carrion sdught 
to depart from el Cid’s court, to avenge themselves of the insult 
they had received. They demanded their brides in order to take 
them to the province of Carrion, to give them cities and riches 
of their own. El Cid agreed and sent servants as an escort for 
his daughters. Once on the road the lnfuntes exacted their 
revenge. After the first night they sent the servants ahead. They 
stripped el Cid’s daughters and beat them with the girth belts 
of their saddles, leaving the women for dead. One of the 
servants was suspicious of thelnfmtes and circled back through 
a wood. He found his charges, lying bloodied upon the ground. 
He revived them and returned to Valencia with el Cid’s daugh- 
ters. 
El Cid was greatly angered by the fate of his daughters. 
Rather than take revenge on his own, however, he appealed for 
justicefromKingAlfonso. ItwasnotelCidthattheInfanteshad 
wronged, but the King, for Alfonso, not Rodrigo Diaz, had 
given el Cid’s daughters to the lnfantes. The King summoned 
his nobles to court in Toledo, there to judge the claims of 
Rodrigo Diaz. 
When the court convened, el Cid presented his case. He 
first told the assembly that he had presented the Infantes with 
his two famous swords, Colada and Tizon. He explained that 
when they deserted his daughters, the lnfantes broke from him, 
so should rightfully return the swords. The gathered nobles 
agreed and the Infuntes, hoping to escape any further judge- 
ment, relinquished the weapons. 
El Cid then presented his next charge. He had given the 
lnfantes 3,000 marks of gold and silver when they left Valencia 
and, since they were no longer his sons-in-law, they should 
return this treasure. The nobles and King agreed, but the 
Infmtes had spent all the coins. They borrowed from neighbors 
and supporters and made up the value in kind. 
Finally, el Cid brought up the issue of his dishonored 
daughters and demanded redress by combat. The lnfmtes 
replied, saying they had done no wrong. They claimed the 
daughters of el Cid were not worthy of their station, that they 
had cast the women aside in favor of brides of equal birth. The 
arguments continued, with el Cid and his supporters deriding 
the Infantes’s claims to noble birth by relating their cowardice. 
The lnfmtes replied, saying their alliance with the Cid, formed 
through marriage, held no parity and in leaving his daughters 
they upheld their honor and right. A rude lord joined the 
Infmtes, saying that el Cid should return to his lands and no 
. 
- 


--- Page ---

( 
.
.
 
.
.
 
,
.
 
.. . . 
. .. 
'. : .. 
.
.
 
. .  
.
.
 


--- Page ---

longer bother the assembled nobles. Then spoke the King: 
“Enough 
words, ye have my leave tofight. n e  Challenged and 
the challengers, and God dejd the right.” 
The duel was set for three weeks hence, in the lands of 
Carrion. El Cid, reluctantly, had to return to Valencia to 
manage his affiirs there. In his stead, he gave the great swords 
Colada and Tizon to two of his followers so they might battle 
the Infantes. The rude count who spoke against el Cid was also 
included in the battle, so a third of the Cids men stayed behind. 
In three weeks the battle was joined on the field of honor. El 
Cids men comported themselves in a heroic fashion. In quick 
succession, they unhorsed the Znfantes and subdued or killed 
the men. Indeed, one of the counts was cut down as he tried to 
flee, proving that el Cid was in the right. His daughters were 
later betrothed to the kings of Navarre and Aragon-Catalonia, 
bringing honor to the name of the Campeador. 
The reign of el Cid in Valencia was short-lived but grand. 
In 1099 el Cid was besieged by the Almoravid army. In the 
battles of the siege, he was killed. The Almoravids did not 
immediately capture the city, however. El Cid‘s wife, Ximena, 
ruled until 1102. At that point, the suffering of the people 
forced her to concede. 
Crusade Against the Moors 
The invasion of the Almoravids in 1086 stabilized the 
frontier between Christian and Moslem Iberia. No advance on 
either side, including those of the 13th century, lasted long. 
The Almoravids originated as a harsh desert tribe who saw the 
lush Iberian country as a paradise to be enjoyed by their 
descendants. Their reign turned decadent (thanks to Infernal 
corruption) and their control over southern Iberia was lost as 
they were supplanted by the Almohads, a coalition of Berber 
tribes from the Atlas mountains. The Almohads, in the face of 
Christian aggression, began radical suppression of Christian 
and Jewish religions in the south. The suppression of their 
religion caused many southem refugees to flee north, giving 
Christian nations much-needed manpower and a boost of 
morale for freeing an oppressed people. From this growing 
manpower and rising spirit the reality of a crusade against the 
Moors was realized. 
Before the crusade could be launched, however, the Chris- 
tians had to agree on who would lead it. After considerable 
turmoil in the early 12th century, Alfonso VII, King of Castile 
took power over much of Iberia’s Christian lands. Regrettably, 
when he died in 1157, Alfonso divided his realm into the 
kingdoms of Castile and Leon. The two brother kings fought 
amongst themselves, but their children, under Alfonso VIII, 
smoothedrelations before the turn of the 12th century. Alfonso 
was instrumental in gathering Christian forces to finally turn 
the tide of war against the Moslems. After a series of small 
victories he challenged the Moslems’ ruler to a battle. The 
Moslems accepted and Alfonso appealed to the rulers of Le6n 
and Navarre for aid. They promised to attend but on the day 
of the battle were absent and Alfonso’s Christians were routed. 


--- Page ---

It is after such a defeat, and after minor skirmishes with the 
kings who had abandoned him, that Alfonso VI11 prepares for 
further crusader attacks upon the Moors. And this, of course, 
brings us to the 13th century, when your Saga takes up the fate 
of Gods crusaders in Iberia. 
The Knights of Christ 
U 
The Knights of the Temple, the Templars, were the first of 
the milikry orders. After the Templars were formed, the Order 
of the Knights of Saint John of Jerusalem, or the Hospitallers, 
was founded. Both orders played some part in the early 
Reconquista, but devoted most of their attention to wars in the 
Holy Land, perceiving the Iberian crusade merely as a means to 
fund their Holy Land campaign. Eventually these two orders 
of combined knights and priests abandoned Iberia to devote 
themselves entirely to Jerusalem. 
By the 13th century the knights fighting the Reconquista 
consist of Iberian orders. The first of them were the Knights of 
Calatrava. In 1157 the Bishop of Toledo preached a crusade to 
recapture the strategic castle of Calatrava, which guarded the 
road to Toledo, and had been abandoned by the Templars. A 
group of Cistercian monks and Navarrese soldiers answered 
the Bishop’s call and took the castle from its Moslem defenders. 
The monks returned to their abbey in 1164 and the remaining 
soldiers were recognized by the Pope as a military order. The 
knights wear a white surcoat over armor painted black, but 
wear no insignia. 
Perhaps the most famous military order in Iberia is the 
Knights of Santiago. This order originated from a band of 13 
knights who protected pilgrims traveling to Santiago de 
Compestela. In 1 175 the knights were recognized as a military 
order by the Pope. As the order grew the knights ran a series 
of hospitals, or hospices, for pilgrims traveling to Santiago. 
They wear a white habit with a red cross on the left breast; the 
bottom arm of the cross is shaped like a sword blade. In the 13th 
century they are a major force in the armies of the Reconquista, 
although some of them have been compted by the forces of 
Darkness. 
Apart from their military role, the orders serve other vital 
functions. Since many of their castles and estates are in areas 
nominally controlled by Moslems, the orders serve as local 
government. They also maintain religious control of their 
estates, overseeing the appointment of priests and bishops. 
One of the orders’ most important roles, however, is in the 
promotion of colonization. By defending their estates, the 
orders provide some degree of security to colonists who brave 
the frontier. Furthermore, in an effort to develop frontier 
towns, the orders give lands they win to secular lords. 
Las Navas de Tolosa 
The battle of Las Navas de Tolosa is a resounding victory 
for Christian kingdoms of Iberia. For the Aragon-Catalan 
Crown, however, it is a brief diversion. Rei En Pere 11, King 
Peter of Aragon-Catalan, holds lands to the north which are 
One of the greatest battles of the Reconquista to occur in 
the 13th century - 
specifically in 1212 - 
is waged at Las 
Navas de Tolosa, a key pass protecting the fertile valleys of 
Andalusia. The armies gathered under Alfonso VI11 include 
some Templars and Hospitallers, and members of the Iberian 
military orders and foreign crusaders. Though most of the 
Templars and other foreigners desert before they reach the 
pass, the main kingdoms of Iberia are represented. In order to 
make the crusaders appear as if out of nowhere, a “shepherd 
leads the army through a secret pass. (After the battle some 
knights report seeing the shepherd again, but claim he turns 
into a dove and takes to the skies!) The Christians mount their 
attack and the Moslems, outmaneuvered and disorganized, are 
routed. 
For over a year the stench of rotting corpses upon the field 
keeps anyone from settling in the area. The battlegrounds 
desolation and isolation proves invaluable to a secret cult of 
diabolists who settle in. They perform their vile deeds among 
the dead, even using bodies as their tools of maleficia, bringing 
some back to a shade of life. Once the people of the Christian 
states begin to move southward, Las Navas de Tolosa becomes 
a frequently traveled area. How long travelers remain safe from, 
and ignorant of, the evil in their presence is a matter left in the 
hands of the Divine. 
’ 
See The Battle, in Chapter Three, for more information on 
events at Las Navas de Tolosa. 
The Albigensian Crusade 


--- Page ---

threatened by French crusaders attacking Cathars in southern 
France. TheFrench fight the Albigensian Crusade (SeeMistridge 
and A hjridsummer Night’s Dream for more information on 
and stories set in the crusade). French soldiers display incred- 
ible cruelty in their battles. FromBarcelona, Pere appeals to the 
Pope to stop the temporal designs of Simon de Montfort, leader 
of the crusading force. The Pope convinces Pere to accept the 
French leader as his vassal in the lands that Montfort has 
captured. 
When Montfort continues his aggressive actions against 
the territory of the Aragon-Catalan crown, Pere declares war on 
him. Pere meets Simon de Montfort in battle at Muret. The 
night before the battle Pere drinks heavily and secludes himself 
with a woman. In the morning he is too weak to stand at Mass. 
Nevertheless, he takes the front rank in the battle and is killed. 
Guards seeking the woman after the battle fail to find her, but 
do discover her shawl. It is stained with blood and smells of 
brimstone. 
Pere’s son, Jaume (lames), is also captured in the battle but 
Pope Innocence 111 orders Simon de Montfort to release the boy 
to his people. Delicately put, there is speculation on the 
decency afforded the boy during his brief capture. 
Portugal 
The Kingdom of Portugal first existed as a province of Leon 
but later achieved its independence. To protect Portugal’s 
sovereignty from surrounding Spanish states, Affonso Enriquez 
submitted the state to Papaljurisdiction. Affonso was given the 
title of Duke of Portugal and Portugal effectively removed 
herself from conflicts between Iberian Christian states. M e n  
Alexander I11 became Pope in 1159 he recognized Affonso as 
King of Portugal. With the sanction and protection of the Pope, 
Portugal was free to turn its military attention to the Moors and 
made some advances. However, the vigorous and bitter 
Kingdom of Castile prevented Portugal’s expansion to the east, 
leaving her to expand to the south. 
In truth, in the 13th century, the Castilian King hopes that 
by attacking the Moors, the Portuguese will be weakened 
beyond the capacity to defend themselves. Indeed, on a few 
occasions Moslem leaders have been bribed to concentrate 
their attacks upon Portuguese forces. The Castilian King hopes 
to plea before the Pope for control of the weakened Portugal, 
acquiring the state legally. Of course, the wath of the Portu- 
guese would be fierce if they were to learn of this Castilian 
treachery. 
Union of Castile and Leon 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
The death of Alfonso VI11 in 1214 brings Henry I to the 
throne of Castile. In an effort to solidify relations between 
Castile and Ledn, Alfonso’s daughter, Berenguela is married to 
Alfonso IX of Ledn, by whom she has a son, Ferdinand. Pope 
Innocent 111 annuls the marriage on the grounds that the two 
have a blood tie, as evidenced by the deformity their son who 
is never seen in public. 


--- Page ---

w ! z i i i - I I  
CHAPTER TWO: MYTHIC 
When Henry I of Castile dies in 1217, Berenguela is 
proclaimed Queen of Castile. She grants her throne to her son 
who, as Ferdinand 111, proves a greater monarch than even his 
grandfather, AlfonsoVIII. Thequestionis, how doesFerdinand 
apparently change in appearance, miraculously alleviated of 
his disfiguration. The wizard rumored to be in his court, and 
at Ferdinand's side at all times, might explain the sudden 
change. 
Ferdinand and Alfonso IX war during the early years of 
Ferdinand's reign but by 1225 Ferdinand secures his hold upon 
the Castilian throne and turns his energies again to the south. 
Alfonso IX dies in 1230 and the Kingdom of Le6n is 
incorporated into the Kingdom of Castile. Before h 
death 
Alfonso tries to deliver his kingdom to two daughters by a 
previous marriage, but Ferdinand I11 thwarts the attempt. 
(Indeed, the two girls suddenly disappear from the Spanish 
social scene, but apparently continue to live, hiding themselves 
from all visitors.) 
With the combined forces of Castile and Lebn, Ferdinand 
is able to make quick work of the remaining Moslems on the 
peninsula. Cdrdova fallsin 1236,andSevillein 1248. Ferdinand 
allies himself with the King of Granada during the campaign on 
Seville and is generally tolerant of the Moslems under his rule. 
Grana& eventually becomes tributary to Castile, but, with 
Ferdinand's death in 1252, the crusading character of the 
Castilian monarchy comes to'an end. 
n 
In keeping with the shroud of mystery that surrounded 
him in life, Ferdinand's death is also dubious. Several body 
parts are found scattered about his castle, but the King's head 
is never found, so that not even the body parts may be idennfied 
as his. 
Crusades of Jaume I 
After his ascension in 1213, Rei En Jaume I of Aragon- 
Catalonia, son of Peter, has the typical troubles of a young ruler 
in Iberia. Not until 1228 is he in full command of his situation. 
Meanwhile, civil wars in France break out under the rule of 
Simon de Montfort, he who held Jaume captive after the battle 
of Muret. Montfort's main adversary is the Count of Toulouse, 
a cousin of the late Rei En Pere. Montfort loses his hfe in this 
war and French influence in the Languedoc region vanishes for 
a time. 
What is little known is that Jaume sent out a call to the 
vilest people of his kingdom, offering a huge reward to the one 
who could assassinate Montfort. Apparently one of those 
killers reached the target, for Montfort's body showed no signs 
of death by battle. Indeed, he was found dead in his quarters, 
poisoned, left with a cringing young boy, the victim of his latest 
perverse exploit. On hearing of Montfort's death,Jaume is said 
to have smiled, which he had not done since the day of his 
recovery from the crusaders years before. 
1 


--- Page ---

ERIA  
- 
conquers the Kingdom of Murcia, giving the land to Catalan 
nobles who are subject to the Castilian King, Ferdinand 111. 
Jaume I dies in 1276. 
After the Crusades: Castile 
AfterthedeathofFerdmandIIIandJaumeI, theReconquista 
comes to a standstill for over two centuries. The last kingdom 
of Moors on the Iberian peninsula, Granada, is subjected to the 
Casdian crown and pays tribute to maintain its lands. Without 
leaders interested in continuing the wars, the Christian coun- 
tries of the peninsula are free to concentrate their efforts on 
increasing the well-being of their people. In Castile this process 
is overseen by Alfonso X (“the Wise”). . Alfonso comes to the 
throne in 1252. Moslems, Jews, and Christians speak freely in 
the King’s court, discussing topics of astronomy, poetry, and 
mathematics. Alfonso himself is well known as a scholar and 
writer and his court in Toledo becomes the gathering place for 
all manner of wandering scholars. During his reign, several 
universities are also founded on the peninsula, to sate the thirst 
for knowledge that spreads amongst Alfonso’s people. Indeed, 
within the libraries of Alfonso’s palace arises a Rational Aura 
that not even priests and their Dominion can undo. 
Alfonso X has political.goals as well. His highest endeavor 
is to claim the title of Holy Roman Emperor. In 1257 the 
Imperial electors choose Alfonso as Emperor but many Ger- 
man princes support the English Earl of Cornwall. On the Earl 
of Cornwall’s death the Germans shift their support to Count 
Rudolph of Hapsburg. For 16 years Alfonso fights to claim the 
Without pressure from the French to the north, Jaume is 
able to heed his people’s wishes for territorial expansion. In 
1229 he captures the island of Majorca, which had long been a 
stronghold of Moslems and pirates. Working in secret, he then 
puts the pirates under his employ, allowing them to raid other 
states, collecting a piece of the action. By 1235 Jaume captures 
all of the Baleric Islands and distributes the lands among his 
followers. In 1238, Jaume captures Valencia and earns his 
honorific, “the Conqueror.” More than simply a conqueror, 
however, Jaume demonstrates theability to administrate. While 
Castile begins to founder economically, Jaume’s kingdom 
prospers by the parceling out of small lands to the people of the 
region, rather than by concentrating large tracts of land in the 
hands of a few. 
Fostering greater prosperity, Jaume is able to continue lus 
conquests. Though agreements with Castile prohibit him from 
claiming any land further south on the peninsula (though his 
pirates bring him wealth from those lands), Jaume continues 
his wars against the Moslems. In the years 1265 to 1266 he 
b 1 
I 
Imperial crown. Opposition from the popes, war with Granada, 
war with his own nobles, and a general lack of Castilian 
sympathy prevents Alfonso from making the journey to Ger- 
many for coronation. In truth, Alfonso also becomes sterile 
during his struggle and develops an infection that saps his will. 
It seems that even supernatural powers conspire against his bid 
for the Empire. In 1273 Rudolph of Hapsburg is crowned 
Emperor and Alfonso’s dreams die. 
After the Crusades: Araplon 
After the death of Jaume I in 1276, Pere 111 gains the 
Aragon-Catalan crown. He shows himself to be of the same 
stuff as his father and continues expansion of the lungdom. 
Jaume had initiated the naval power of Aragon-Catalonia and 
had attempted an invasion of the Holy Land. Pere 111 builds 
upon that power and reaches out into the Mediterranean to 
establish a protectorate over the Moslem state of Tunis. 
Events then fall into place to bring Pere I11 into contention 
for the dominance of Sicily. First, Pere refuses to be a vassal to 
the Pope, repudiating the arrangement of his grandfather, Pere 


--- Page ---

~ 
~ 
3 
~ 
~~ 
_ _ _ ~  
11. Second, he manies the daughter of King Manfred of Sicily. hG Sunday dinner. Not suiprisingly, the populace invites Pere 
When the Papacy wins Sicily from the Hohenstaufen Holy 
I11 to help them. Pere 111 invades Sicily in 1282 and is master 
Roman Emperors, Manfred backs the losing side. The Pope, of the island a short time later. The Pope excommunicates Pere 
therefore, offers the Kingdom of Sicily as fief to a French prince, 
111 and proclaims a crusade against him. Indeed, the Pope 
Charles of Anjou. Charles has Manfred put to death and condones the actions of theurgists, who bring demons upon 
proceeds to rule in a tvrannical fashion. The Deonle of Sicilv Pere on the Church’s behalf. Pere 111 dies in 1285 at Infernal 
- 
- - 
r - r  
believe that Charles k&s his enemies and has them cooked fo; 
hands, but not before offering to return Sicily to the Pope to save 
his soul. 
. 


--- Page ---

A 


--- Page ---

his Chapter discusses the birth and growth of 
the order of Hemes in Spain, forming what is 
now the Iberian Tribunal. The history of the 
OrderinIberiagoesasfarbackastheRomanera, 
when it existalas the Cult ofMercuIy. Indeed, having experienced 
almost every stage of the order of Hemes’s development, the 
Iberian Tribunal is something of a microcosm of the the larger 
order‘s history. 
The Cult of Mercury was a strong force in the Roman 
Empire. While it wasn’t widely popular, it served an important 
purpose. The priests of Mercury considered themselves re- 
sponsible for the wealth and well-being of the Empire. Their 
powerful rituals were focused on the continuation of Roman 
structure. Much of their wisdom has been lost but Magi of the 
Order of Hemes search for it to gain a deeper understanding 
of magic and its place in the order of the universe. 
One of the longest-lasting elements of the Roman Empire 
was influenced by the priests of Mercury. The Mercurial cult 
needed massive numbers of priests to complete their most 
complex rituals. More priests involved in rituals meant more 
power could be invested into rituals. As the Empire expanded, 
the priests of Mercury spread with it. Soon there were not 
enough priests in any one place to complete important rituals.. 
The priests worked to establish mystical connections between 
their temples, allowing far-flung priests to combine their 
power. Since these rituals supportedand protected the Empire, 
theEmpireputgreat effort into aidingitspriests, thoughdidnot 
widely admit to doing so. The leadership of Rome, with the aid 
of Mercury’s priests, developed the system of roads that the 
Romans are well-known for. Apart from the mundane advan- 
tages that permanent roads offered, they allowed for long- 
lasting mystical connections between distant temples. With 
the network of roads extending from Rome across the Empire, 
priests in every comer could join in rituals to strengthen the 
state. 
Priests of Mercury played an important part in the coloni- 
zation of Iberia. With the threat of Hannibal and other 
Carthagenian forces, Rome called upon all its assets to defend 
the Empire. Priests of Mercury marched alongside the legions 
in thesecondassault on the peninsula, adding their magic to the 
force of a m .  The relatively quick defeat of Carthage on the 
peninsula was a reflection of the skill and power of the 
Mercurial priests. 
However, the priests’ weaknesses were demonstrated in 
the campaign against the Iberian highlands. The quick strikes 
of the indigenous peoples did not allow time for priests to 
prepare rituals needed to defend the legions. Rituals performed 
on the peninsula were also limited in power due to the small 
number of priests that accompanied Roman forces. Most 
rituals could affect no more than the area of a city, surrounding 
a hastily-built temple. Without connection to the network of 
roads that provides a mystical connection to Rome, the priests’ 
powers were severely limited. 
Once a system of Iberian roads developed, however, the 
priests of Mercury made a large contribution to the conquest of 
peninsula. With connections to their power base in Rome, they 


--- Page ---

were able to influence events further from the city. The 
primitive wizards of the indigenous population were no match 
for the power of the priests of Mercury. Most simply migrated 
out of Iberia or hid until the colony was better established and 
more stable. Once the colony was established, the cult began 
to expand its network of temples and recruit new members. A 
network of followers, including some native wizards, was 
established to provide funding and initiates for the priesthood. 
Growth in Hispania 
~~~ 
~ 
The wealth of the Iberian peninsula attracted the priests of 
Mercury. Their need for expensive materials to perform rituals 
required a large financial base. Roman businessmen flocked to 
exploit the wealth of the peninsula. Since these businessmen 
also shipped and provided the materials needed by the cult, 
they enjoyed the protection and aid of the priests of Mercury. 
Theimport andexport ofawidevariety of goodswas controlled 
almost exclusively by Romans in Hispania. The Cult of 
Mercury itself had interests in some shipping companies, 
limiting their dependance on the merchants. However, the 
demands of maintaining the ritual activities of the cult pre- 
vented priests from completely divesting themselves of 
dependance on Rome's merchants. The wealthy inhabitants of 
the new colony also added to the strength of the Hispanian cult. 
The seniores in their villas were strong supporters of Roman 
culture in general and supported the cult with funds and 
followers. 
As Iberian cities developed and grew, the Cult of Mercury 
built new temples, connected them by roads, and solicited new 
initiates. One of the requirements of entering the priesthood 
was Roman citizenship. At first, Hispanian members of the 
Cult of Mercury were limited to those of Roman blood. Later, 
other important Hispanians were granted citizenship and 
became eligible for membership. 1nA.D. 212, Emperor Carcalla 
granted citizenship to all people in Hispanian cities, greatly 
increasing the number of people eligible for priesthood. The 
cult still appealed mostly to the businessmen, bureaucrats, and 
the owners of vast estates, though, leaving the common people 
almost completely out of the sect. In spite of this restriction, the 
number of non-Roman priests in the cult swelled. With the 
arcane connection to Rome solidified by the network of roads, 
the priests of Mercury in Hispania added significant strength to 
rituals in Rome. 
Victory of Christianity 
When Christianity came to Iberia, the common people 
enthusiastically joined the new religion. Christianity swayed 
the populace by offering them direct experience of God's grace. 
The missionaries learned of the people's exclusion from the 
Roman religion and began to openly oppose Roman cults. 
Some early Christiaps paid a high price for this opposition and 
Iberia contributed its share of martyrs to the early Christian 
cause. 


--- Page ---

Y - i  
CHATTER THREE: 
HERMETIC 
HISTORY- - 
As Christianity gained popularity, the priests of Mercury 
saw it as a challenge to the order they strived to maintain. The 
elders of the priesthood claimed that the new religion was 
destroying Rome and should be wiped out. As the power of the 
Mercurial cult continued to dwindle over the centuries, this 
doctrine was modified. Some members initially suggested that 
a flaw of Hispanian blood made the people accept the new 
religion. These priests thought the flaw could be overcome and 
the people brought into the cults of Rome. The idea of a flaw 
in Hispanian blood eventually became widely accepted by the 
cult. Later, a particularly hard-line patriarch of the cult 
forwarded the notion that the powerful Mercurial rituals were 
not functioning properly because they were being performed 
by non-Romans. The declining power of their rituals, this 
patriarch decided, was not due to the new religion but to the fact 
that the cult had accepted non-Romans among its number. 
Non-Roman priests in Hispania were therefore expelled and 
some killed. Unfortunately, this reduced the number of priests 
available for the performance of rituals and the power of the 
cult’s magic continued to decline. 
Soon, the Cult of Mercury fell into obscurity in Hispania. 
Christianity eventually won out, becoming the official religion 
of Rome in the 4th century. By that time, the Cult of Mercury 
was very small in the province. Some of its members had left 
and, along with some of those expelled, joined the new religion, 
becoming priests there as they had been in the cult. The long 
decline of the cult was coming to a conclusion. By the time the 
Visigoths sacked Rome in 410, little was left and in 412 the cult 
was officially disbanded. 
Former priests of Mercury in Iberia contributed to the 
development of the nascent Christian Church. Indeed, many 
claim the Church’s rituals owe their foundatiops to the Roman 
Cult of Mercury. In particular, the Mass is said to reflect the 
influence of former Mercurial priests. Divine power invested 
in Christian priests allows them to turn simple wine and bread 
into the blood and body of Christ, through the ritual of the 
Mass. By consuming these foods, followers are connected to 
the power of the Divine. That connection allows priests to 
maintain a mystical connection to the people who partake of 
the Mass. The power of the Divine thereby spreads throughout 
the populace, allowing Christian priests to use Divine power to 
aid their flock. Such a spread of power from a ritual through a 
medium is akin to the powers spread byMercuria1 rituals, along 
Roman roads. It is ironic to think that the Dominion, which 
currently plagues members of the Order of Hermes, may have 
developed from the same roots as the Order. 
During the three centuries between the fall of the Cult of 
Mercury and the end of the Visigothic rule of Iberia, widespread 
magic on the peninsula was scarce. The priests of Mercury 
could not work their fantastic rituals without numbers to 
support them, and the priests eventually left. Some of the more 
far-sighted priests struggled to record the knowledge of the 
priesthood and store it for future generations. However, much 
knowledge simply disappeared into the wilderness with the 
priests. The priests that remained in urban centers quickly 
latched onto the mundane forces in power. The priests’ wealth 
and skill with people quickly earned them high places within 
Visigothic social structure and some even sought to maintain 
practices of the priesthood. Without the support of the 
government or the people, however, priests clinging to the old 
ways were unable to influence anything beyond their personal 
affairs. 
The Visigoths brought some magic into Iberia with them. 
Though long-time Christians, the Visigoths held on to their 
fiercely independent ways. Entire families moved with armies 
into Iberia and with them came sorcerers of ancient tradition. 
Early Visigothic magic was mostly naturalistic, leaning toward 
shamanism and Norse tendencies. Other Visigothic sorcerers 
were creators of fantastic items. They labored for years to create 
items that are unparalleled in the world today. So powerful 
were some of these items that a few may be found even in the 
13th century. These sorcerers were responsible for the magics 
that protected the Iberian peninsula from invasion, and they 
tied that protection into the greatest power they could imagine, 
that of the Visigothic kings. (If Visigoth kings are to somehow 
return, maybe as the undead, they might still posses their 
former magical wards, making them terrible adversaries.) As 
advisors and court wizards, the sorcerers of the early Visigoths 
earned a place for themselves in the society they protected. 
It may be that from Visigoth wizards’ dealings with 
mundanes. the modem Order of Hermes learned its lesson of 
avoiding mortals. Jealousy struck Visigoth kings and they grew 
daily resentful of the magical powers that won them power. 
The kings soon believed they controlled the wizards. More 
lavish and powerful items were ordered. The wizards’ powers 
were also called upon to solve petty squabbles and to ensure the 
fealty of lords to their king. When the Visigoth wizards, tired 
of such abuse, rebelled or refused to work, they were killed or 
forever exiled to the rocky crags of Iberia. 
Ultimately, when Visigoth kings grew so arrogant that 
they ignored wizardly advice, and the rising Dominion of the 
Church interfered with their work, Visigothic sorcerers with- 
drew completely from the society they had helped build. By this 
time perhaps a score of wizards remained in Iberia. They felt 
little if any remorse in abandoning those who had forsaken 
them. 
ISLAM’S 
MAGIC 
As the Visigoths were embroiled in civil war, the forces of 
the Islamic empire fell upon Iberia and began their conquest. 
Initially, only military forces landed. When the Visigoths 
regroupedandpreparedforbattlewiththeinvadingarmies, 
the 
Islamic forces brought up their reserves and began to employ 
other resources. Islamic sorcerers held the advantage in 
1 
Ib 
b 


--- Page ---

conquering the fertile peninsula. The magic of these sorcerers 
was largely attuned to the contact and control of djinn, proud 
spirits of elements. 
With the assistance of djinn, Arab sorcerers were (and are) 
able to fashion magnificent items of power, known for their 
beauty as well as mystical attributes. Only the sorcerers with 
the most powerful wills could control these proud and fierce 
creatures. Once controlled, djinn made powerful servants, able 
to fashion items with a skill beyond human comprehension, 
and able to work tirelessly at speeds outstripping the fastest 
human. The disappearance of King Roderic of the Visigoths at 
the first large battle between the Arabs and Visigoths is believed 
the work of Arabic sorcerers. It’s said that, fearing their tide of 
invasion might be stopped by combined Visigoth forces, Mos- 
lem sorcerers, eager to reap the wealth of the peninsula, had 
their djinn abduct Roderic and cast his corpse into the river, 
well away from the battle. Indeed, if this legend is true, that of 
Roderic’s lingering spirit might also be true. 
’ As the Arabs moved up the peninsula, the actions of their 
sorcerers and djinn continued. It was djinn that caused the 
storm which allowed invaders to gain C6rdova without great 
conflict. But even the powerful sorcerers of Islam and their 
djinn faced limits on the peninsula. The Dominion, growing in 
the land for several centuries, frustrated Arab sorcerers and 
their servants in much the same way it plagues Magi of Hemes 
in the 13th century. 
The nobility of the Arabs, however, understood the impor- 
tance of their sorcerers and the danger posed should the 
sorcerers grow angry with the Dominion’s continued exist- 
ence. The Arab nobility took it upon themselves to conquer 
Iberian cities and throw down their icons of the Church, 
turning altar decorations into lamps for mosques. Arab leaders 
also patronized sorcerers, setting up libraries and laboratories 
for them to study. 
The society that invading Arabs structured was also favor- 
able to sorcerers. The nobility admired learning and favored 
teachers and artists among their courts. Christians within 
conquered territories were restricted as well, to avoid Christian 
and sorcerer confrontations. Here Moslem rulers had to walk 
a fine line, though. They didn’t want their armies to believe the 
Christian Dominion could endanger Arab sorcerers, but the 
Arab nobility equally feared inciting the Church, bringing the 
full wrath of the Dominion upon them. (Of course, that did 
eventually happen.) Early in Iberia’s Arabic conquest, Chris- 
tians were therefore allowed to pursue their religion, but had to 
pay a special tax. The tax kept Christians from affording great 
edifices, believed to help spread the Dominion. Thus, the 
loyalty of Moslem sorcerers was preserved and the Christian 
Dominion was subtly subdued. 
Ironically, to utilize their powers, Moslem sorcerers in 
Iberia also had to contend with some followers of Islam. If 
sorcerers professed to follow Mohammed they were in the 
paradoxical position of practicing an art considered heretical 
by Arab orthodoxy. If sorcerers did not subscribe to the 
Moslem religion, they were subject to the restrictive laws that 
kept Christian influqnce under control. Thus, while sorcerers 
Legends of Hermetic History 
Regardless of similarities between Hermetic Magi and 
Moslem sorcerers, the two have maintained considerable 
hatred, perhaps out of jealousy, paranoia, or fear. During 
the Hermetic Schism War, when Moslem governments in 
Iberia were in turmoil, Hermetic Magi made direct attacks 
upon Moslem sorcerers. Caught up in their hunt of rebel 
Magi, many young followers of Flambeau traveled into 
Moslem lands specifically to hunt and kill the descendants 
of those that had lulled their Founder (see Flambeau). 
To the &may of House Flambeau, during the period 
of the tuifa states that followed the end of the Caliphate, 
many Moslem sorcerers joined the Order of Hemes. As 
Moslems joined the Order and learned Hermetic magic, an 
age of magic came to an end as much Islamic knowledge 
was not passed on to apprentices. And yet, there may still 
be some knowledge of Arabic magic lying hidden within the 
libraries of Islamic cities. 
enjoyed the favor of the nobility, orthodox leaders of the 
Islamic religion preached against them. In the civil disorders 
that occasionally sprang up, Islamic sorcerers fared poorly at 
the hands of riotous mobs. They were often driven from cities, 
had their homes destroyed, and were occasionally killed. 
As the religious persecution of Arab sorcerers by mundanes 
continues into the 13th century, Arab sorcerers bear many 
similarities to Hermetic Magi and the persecution they face. It 
comes as no surprise, then, that Magi and Moslem sorcerers 
sometimes ally. Maybe the two might one day unite to assure 
their safety from the fickle and foolish mob. 
One of the magical Moslem sects of the 12th and 13th 
centuries that is popular in Iberia is the Sufis. These practitio- 
ners of magic did not come from the Arab tradition of sorcery 
but from the Persian tradition of mysticism. Though most of 
their teachings focus on gaining personal experience of Allah, 
some also provide a path to the power of magic. 
Nuinsil of Criamon first discovered the nature of the Suffi’ 
teachings during his journeys to Arabia, in the early 11th 
century. The nature of the SufE’ teachings appeals to enigmatic 
Criamon Magi, and the C&mon seem to have much to offer the 
Moslems. While most of the Order knows little of Sufi power, 
some of the skills exhibited by its followers seem to duplicate 
Hermetic magic (maybe taught by Criamon Magi in exchange 
for foreign insights?). Tales told by the Sufis, and by others 
about the SufE, imply that the SufE have powers kept secret 
from the Order. Most, however, view them as crackpot hedge 
wizards, given to speaking in riddles. Maybe the truth of the 
SufE’ enigma lies in their riddles, and only Criamon Magi can 
truly decipher the extent of Sufi power. 


--- Page ---

FLAMBEAU 
The Iberian history of House Flambeau has its roots in the 
Roman period. It was on the peninsula that the House’s 
founder was born and lived much of his life. It was also here that 
he died. 
Little is known of the specifics of Flambeass family 
history; Flambeau was not given to great writings of his past. 
What we do know is passed on by current members of House 
Flambeau and is sure to have grown some in the telling. 
Members of the House tell that Flambeau’s vulgar family was 
named Seneca (though some think these historians seek to 
draw connection to the famous Senecas of Cordova), and that 
they had mercantile business in the Provencia Hispunia Ulterior 
Lusitania. This region of the Roman province covered most of 
southwestern Iberia, and House Flambeau claims “ancestral” 
lands near Badajoz. The Covenant of Jaferiya is said to have 
been founded on the site of one of the villas that Flambeau’s 
vulgar family lost to invading Moslems. From all accounts, it 
seems that the Seneca family was prosperous and happy 
throughout the Roman rule of Iberia. 
When the barbarian tribes first entered Iberia, the Senecas 
suffered. The tribes plundered the fields and took land indis- 
criminately from its rightful owners. Like most wealthy land- 
owners, however, the family persevered. Though they often 
had to battle the barbarian lungs that held sway over the land, 
the Senecas were able to retain most of their land and maintain 
their trade contacts. In fact, under Visigothic rule the Seneca 
family flourished, enjoying new privileges of their high social 
class. The family intermarried with the Visigothic nobility and 
extended their holdings. Soon, according to House Flambeau, 
the family was among the most influential in Iberian politics. 
They possessed the right to vote for the sovereign of the 
Visigoths and even put up their own candidate on more than 
oneoccasion. 
. . 
Flambeau, himself, was born Reculed Annaeus Senecas, in 
698. Of his young life next to nothing is known. The turmoil 
of the period left him little time for childhood pleasures. As 
soon as he could stand, he began training as a warrior. When 
Reculed was but twelve years of age, civil war swept the land as 
the Visigoth King, Witiza, attempted to put his son on the 
throne against the objections of thenobility. In the fighting that 
followed, the young Reculed was spirited to a family villa in a 
more central part of the peninsula. This departure from family 
estates on the southern coast proved fortunate as the armies of 
Tank ibn-Ziyild invaded in 71 1.. While the family’s southern 
holdings were quickly overrun, more northern ones held out 
for several years. In 712, the young Reculed was taken from his 
family by a wizard fleeing from the invading army. Reculed did 
not willingly abandon his family, but the mysterious wizard felt 
he had need of the Gift that was expressing itself in the young 
noble, and convinced the young Reculed to accompany him. 
The wizard was Delendar, Flambeau’s teacher and a great 
practitioner of the destructive arts of magic. He schooled 
Reculed with a haste born of desperation. Delendar had seen 


--- Page ---

the power of Arabic sorcerers and felt the forces that currently 
ruled the land had little chance of standing against them. His 
magic was based on the Mercurial tradition though it had 
undergone centuries of permutation. Still bound by the 
philosophy that more practitioners provided more power, 
Delendar struggled to impart his knowledge on the young man. 
Reculed proved a quick study; his sharp mind gave him insight 
into the structure of magic and he often made intuitive leaps 
beyond the anticipation of his master. Reculed’s early study of 
the arts of war in turn proved invaluable to Delendar. Delendar 
knew magic but his only knowledge of fighting came from 
ancient texts of strategy. Reculed was thus able to incorporate 
his knowledge of war into his magic. The two wizards therefore 
struck up a relationship of equality, one greater than any 
between master and apprentice. Born out of necessity, their 
relationship became that of father and son. 
Even before officially finishing his learning, Reculed ac- 
companied Delendar onto the battlefield. They lent their magic 
to the efforts of Christian nobility resisting the advances of 
invading armies, but to little avail. They were but two men, and 
even their great power could not be expressed across the 
entirety of the peninsula. The Moslem armies steadily ad- 
vanced. Once the pair of wizards had been identified, they 
faced challenges from their counterpart,s in war. It was in these 
battles that Reculed began his fascination with fire magics. 
Such spells thrilled the young wizard and added greatly to the 
visibility of his efforts. As the exploits of Delendar and his 
young student became renowned among wizards of the time, 
their mere presence put an end to Moslem attacks. But Moslem 
leaders eventually grew impatient with their impeded advance 
and with losses suffered at the hands of the two wizards. 
Moslem leaders therefore gathered sorcerers from the farthest 
reaches of the peninsula and gave them the task of stopping the 
troublesome wizards. 
In 730, Delendar and his young student became involved 
in a battle between Christian and Islamic forces, waged in the 
foothills of the F’yrenees. The meager Christian force, bolstered 
by the magic of the Magi, held off the Islamic forces for several 
days. The Christians and wizards were entrenched in a cave, 
planning their counter-attack. They did not hope to win the 
day but hoped to break Islamic lines to join their fellows some 
distance to the west. As they mounted their attack, the wizards 
struck a series of decisive blows and a gap appeared in Islamic 
lines. The Christians poured through and on to freedom. The 
two wizards, however, were not so lucky. Moslem sorcerers 
and their djinn fell upon the pair. They in turn were separated 
by the great breath of a djinn, and enchantments fell on them 
with such rapidity that they could not regain their ground. 
Reculed was knocked over a ridge and fell into a valley below. 
While he frantically scrambled up the hill, the sorcerers con- 
centrated their power on Delendar. The mighty Magus stood 
firm, his beard and robes blowing in the mystical winds that 
assaulted him. All around, enchantments and creatures disap- 
peared without sound. Even the sorcerers that beset him, the 
best on the peninsula, were not safe from Delendar’s destruc- 
tive magic. 
Before long, however, the sheer number of Moslem sorcer- 
ers overwhelmed Delendar. The sorcerers pummeled him, 
draining his vitality, finally taking his life. Reculed regained the 
top of the hill in time to see his master tom asunder by magical 
winds. His rage, funnelled through the powerful magic he was 
taught by Delendar, served as the agent of Reculed’s revenge. 
Only the most powerful and quick-thinking of the Islamic 
sorcerers escaped his wrath. In a few short minutes Reculed 
stood alone on the wind-blown hill, the crash of mighty 
magicks now silent as he stood over the broken body of his 
mentor. 
Flambeau Amone the Franks 
Some say Reculed’s spirit was broken that day, that he 
could no longer bring himself to fight after the death of his 
m&ter. Those that have been trained in his tradition, however, 
tell a different story. As he stood on that hill, they say, he felt 
two types of grief. He felt the grief of a son for the death of a 
father, but also felt the despair of a general who had seen a prime 
legion decimated. The war was not lost but never again would 
a fighter like this one walk the land. No matter what the young 
wizard thought, he left Iberia and crossed the Pyrenees into the 
lands of the Franks. While living among these fierce people, he 
took to using the name Flambeau, reflecting his preference for 
fire magicks. 


--- Page ---

Life north of the Pyrenees did not end Flambeau’s battles 
against invading Moslems. When they, too, crossed the rugged 
Pyrenees, Flambeau met them in battle. At the turning point 
of the Moslem invasion - 
the battle of Tours - 
Flambeau 
made a telling contribution to the fight. Moslem texts tell of 
Frankish forces led by Charles Martel meeting the invaders in 
a valley some distance from Tours. When the Moslems ordered 
an all-out attack, the Franks formed a hollow square and stood 
as firm and inflexible as a wall of ice. From wihn this redoubt 
their archers were able to deliver severe blows to the Moslem 
cavalry. Flambeau’s magic bound the warriors of the Franlush 
force into their defensive positions. With the added strength of 
magic, the lines held against the invaders’ assault and the 
Franks carried the day. 
Flambeau lived well among the barbarian Franks. Their 
fiery temperament and love of battle matched his own predilec- 
tions. Among the Franks, Flambeau gained more experience 
on the battlefield, and even commanded a band of mercenaries 
for a season. But the mundane desires and demands of a 
warrior’s life soon dragged on Flambeau’s spirit. He set out on 
his own with that knowledge he had gained in warfare. The 
death of his master still hung heavy on Flambeau’s heart and he 
worked toward avenging himself upon the sorcerers who had 
slain his lord. 
Knowing that his slulls were, as yet, unequal to the task of 
directly opposing Islamic sorcerers, Flambeau set out to hone 
them against opponents in Mythic Europe. While some say he 
hunted and slew over fifty wizards across Mythic Europe, just 
for the challenge, Flambeau’s followers know he was testing 
and sharpening Ius skills in preparation for the day that he 
would challenge those who had slain Delendar. It was during 
this period of preparation that Flambeau was contacted by 
Trianoma and was told of her idea for the Order of Hemes. 
Once the Order of Hermes was formed in 767, Flambeau 
set out to regain his family’s ancestral lands and to avenge the 
death of his teacher. When it became clear that the other 
founders would not join hm, he set out to train apprentices. 
His first was Apromor, who preferred the arts of destruction to 
his master’s taste for fire. Flambeau taught his apprentice in the 
manner that he had been taught, upon the battlefield. The pair 
scoured the breadth of Mythlc Europe for hedge wizards and 
sorcerers that had not joined the Order of Hermes. While many 
of these minor spell casters joined upon hearing from its 
formidable “ambassadors,” others held proudly to their tradi- 
tions and died at the hands of Flambeau, his apprentice, or 
other founders. 
After five years of effort, Flambeau realized he could not 
form the army of powerful Magi he needed to vanquish all of 
Islam’s sorcerers. Furthermore, foes to test his apprentices 
against were growing few and far between. Though Apromor 
advanced quickly in his s t u d m ,  Flambeau knew he himself 
could never replace the fallen Delendar. Flambeau examined 
his surroundings to find a soh tion. The sanctuary of Bonisagus, 
at Durenmar, drew his attention. There the magical genius 
behmd Parma Magica was systematically schooling appren- 
tices in his theory of magic. Taking this as a cue, Flambeau 
gathered his apprentices and some young, excitable Magi from 
other Houses and set out for the Pyrenees. There he searched 
for a place of power, where his Magi could learn not only from 
Bonisagus’s theory but from their environment as well. Flam- 
beau realized that if truly powerful Magi could not be raised, 
then many of lesser power could. Flambeau found a suitable 
place in a high river valley and there founded the Covenant of 
Val-Negra. From this perch Flambeau hoped to strike out 
against the invading Moslems and destroy them once and for 
all. 
Flambeau at the Founding 
Flambeau was skeptical upon first hearing of the nascent. 
Order. His only contact with wizards other than his master had 
been in competition. He did not see how trust could be 
developed among the disparate traditions of Mythic Europe’s 
wizards. Trianoma persevered and, after a particularly annoy- 
ing interview, had the opportunity to demonstrate the power of 
the Parma Magica, as developed by Bonisagus. Seeing his spell 
blunted by the mystical shield that protected Trianoma, Flam- 
beau believed in the possibility of an order. Of course, he still 
had doubts and chafed at Trianoma’s talk of a code of conduct, 
being protective and proud of his independence. But, in 
gatherings with the other founders at Durenmar, Flambeau 
found kindred spirits among them. Tytalus’s love of battle and 
Tremere’s ideas of structure fit well with Flambeau’s plans for 
the Order’s development. The pressure of these three, and the 
threat posed by Flambeau in particular, assured the inclusion 
of provisions for legalized Wizard‘s War within the Code. 
Flambeau feared that Islamic sorcerers might hear of the Order 
and, fearing his retribution, swear to the Code to escape his 
revenge. 
Flambeau’s Death 
After the founding of Val-Negra, Flambeau endured many 
frustrations in his plan to destroy Islamic invaders in his home 
country. He constantly battled Guernicus and the other early 
Quaesitoris, who said his aid of Christian forces in Iberia was 
in direct violation of the Code to which he had sworn. Flam- 
beau was not often given to arguing, instead following a policy 
of listening to and then ignoring others’ imperious commands. 
When he did argue with the Quaesitoris he pointed out that he 
took the Code to mean that any interference in mundane affairs 
should not bring ruin upon others of the Order. He would then 
point out that charred Moslems only ruined the air about them, 
having no effect upon the Order. The Quaesitoris were not 
suitably impressed and, backed by the leaders of other Houses, 
officially decreed that Flambeau should abandon overt support 
of Christians in Iberia. Flambeau, not to be denied Ius revenge, 
continued his support but learned the &ficult lesson of hiding 
his actions from the Quaesitoris. 
Flambeau’s best chance to regain his stolen ancestral lands 
came late in the 8th century. The leaders of several states, led 
by the governor of Barcelona, invited Emperor Charlemagne to 
enter their country and stop the advances of ‘Abd-al-Rahmiin I. 


--- Page ---

Flambeau heard of the impending campaign and made plans to 
join Charlemagne’s army. The Quaesitoris heard of the cam- 
paign as well and, knowing Flambeau’s feelings on the subject, 
sent him a letter informing him that a delegation of Quaesitoris 
would be staying at Val-Negra during the summer of 777, 
ostensibly to add copies of the Peripheral Code to the Covenant’s 
library. Unable to participate in the attack himself, Flambeau 
sent some of his bestfilia to join Charlemagne’s force, spending 
his own time “entertaining” the Quaesitor delegation. When, 
later that winter, Flambeau learned of the Christians’ failure at 
Saragossa and of Charlemagne’s retreat from Iberia, the Magus’s 
fury knew no bounds. The Magi he had sent described the 
magic of Islamic sorcerers, how they prevented a sustained 
attack upon the city. Flambeau blamed himself for the defeat 
and, in his rage, probably would have killed his apprentices if 
he had not been daily reminded of the the Code’s tenants. 
In 788, upon hearing of ‘Abd-al-Rahmiin’s death, Flam- 
beau finally set out to have his revenge. Ironically, the 
Quaesitoris could find no fault in Flambeau’s actions. Her- 
metic Magi that lived within lands controlled by ‘Abd-al- 
Rahmiin defied the Order of Hemes, and presented a threat to 
all Iberia. Flambeau gathered a select group about him, drew 
heavily from Val-Negra’sstores of vis, and went south. With the 
Moslems in political disorder, Flambeau found little difficulty 
in convincing Christian leaders to mount an offensive. 
The army to which Flambeau attached himself faced little 
resistance until they were in Iberia’s deep south. In the 
mountains of the central plateau, they met their first strong 
patrol. Flambeau’s force easily defeated the Moslems and he 
made sure that some cavalry escaped, to bring word of his magic 
to their superiors. Within two weeks Flambeau got his wish. 
A strong force of Arabs, accompanied by a sorcerous contin- 
gent, met the Christian army in a wide valley. Unfortunately, 
Flambeau had not chosen his mundane allies wisely. At the 
prospect of opposing magicks, half the force fled the field. 
While Flambeau and his fellows easily handled the Islamic 
sorcerers’ magicks, the Moslem armies pressed dangerously 
close and the Magi were forced to retreat. The remains of the 
force took refuge in a tower in a mountain pass. 
At the tower, Flambeau positioned his infantry a short 
distance away and assigned one of his three remaining follow- 
ers to support them. The troops were to hold mundane forces 
at bay while Flambeau and the others prepared for the on- 
slaught of magic expected from Moslem sorcerers. They had 
not long to wait. The pursuing Moslems poured into the valley 
and formed their lines some distance from Flambeau’s defense. 
The Islamic sorcerers began their enchantments and called 
upon the services of their enslaved djinn. Storm clouds rolled 
over the mountain tops and wind began to howl through the 
valley. With the thunder of the storm echoing the thunder of 
their great drums, the Moslems rode on the attack. 
Blasts of fire struck the Moslem lines as Flambeau’s min- 
ions struck from the top of the tower. Moslem sorcerers 
whipped winds around those on the tower, demanding the 
Magi’s attention. Moslem soldiers quickly recovered and 
renewed their assault. They chargedand were repulsed by force 
of arms and magic. Methodically, the units reformed and 
charged, again and again, each time gaining a small amount of 
ground as Christian defenders fell back. 
Meanwhile, the battle of magic had begun in earnest. 
While djinn harried Flambeau and his followers, they retaliated 
with fire and destruction, the storm growing all the while. 
Suddenly one of Flambeau’s Magi was cast off the tower by 
attacking djinn, leaving Flambeau’s right flank open. The 
surviving Magi moved back to back for protection. The 
younger Magus was seized by a powerful djinn. Flambeau 
magically flailed at the mighty spirit, but it tore his follower 
asunder and scattered the remains to the wind. 
On the ground below the defending mundane forces were 
hard pressed. They had taken severe losses and the magical 
pressures weighing on the Magus supporting them were far 
beyond his ability. The few defenders left were forced against 
the tower. Flambeau looked over the valley and saw himself 
alone against the sorcerers and warriors that remained. In 
despair and anger he struck out, brilliant bolts of flame filling 
the valley, many foes falling before his wrath. As just one 
Magus, however, Flambeau could not contain them all. 
Lightning from the storm, directed by sorcerers across the 
valley, began to strike Flambeau. He fought back with fire and 
stood firm, protected by his P a m  Magica. Seeing the lack of 
effect their spells had, the sorcerers switched targets and 
‘ 
n 


--- Page ---

attacked the tower itself. Pqwerful bolts struck the edifice, 
shaking it to its foundations. Thunder rolled and cracked 
through the valley as the tower began to tremble and sway. The 
defenders at its base made a last attempt to save themselves, 
running toward the valley floor. Sensing his imminent destruc- 
tion, Flambeau gathered his remaining vis and prepared his 
final spell. As the tower fell, Flambeau’s voice echoed through 
the valley, the clouds of the storm broke and sunlight filled the 
valley. The collapsing tower roared a last peal of thunder and 
raised a wave of dust as it fell to the ground. In its wake silence 
reigned. 
Delendos, the Magus set to protect mundane forces on the 
ground, crawled from the ruins to find no other living creature 
in the valley. Beaten, burned and broken, he hobbled back to 
Val-Negra. There he told of Flambeau’s demise. An expedition 
was formed to investigate the site. They found the ruined tower 
and other things described by Delendos. Of Flambeau they 
could find nothing. Both mundane and magical searches 
turned up no trace of the fiery founder. The pass still holds the 
ruins of the tower and they are attraction for individual 
members of House Flambeau who seek inspiration before a 
coming battle. 
Flambeau’s last spell, as described by hisfilius Delendos, 
has become something of a legend within the Order, especially 
among members of House Flambeau. Some followers of 
Flambeau habitually carry enormous amounts of vis, some- 
times as much as three rooks, to be used in such a final, all- 
consuming spell. The device typically used to store this vis has 
come to be known by Flambeau Magi as thefons et origo. In a 
rare insight among followers of Flambeau, this means “source 
and origin.” The amount of vis, and the fact that the Magus 
using it is typically fatigued, virtually guarantees that the force 
of the magic used will overcome the caster. The Magus 
typically uses this vis as a last strike at enemies, when all else 
seems lost. 
Herrnes 
W l e  most recruiting for the new Order took place.in 
areas close to central Mythic Europe, some Magi traveled far to 
convince others to join. Flambeau, for instance, is known for 
his zeal, but his contemporaries thought he took more pleasure 
in meetings if the wizards refused to join. In spite of his violent 
demeanor, or perhaps because of it, Flambeau did bring a fair 
share of new members into the Order. Few of the new Magi 
joined his House, though. When Flambeau settled and began 
to train apprentices, he added greatly to his followers and began 
his plans for the Iberian Tribunal. His intentions in helping to 
found Val-Negra were not completely apparent to other Magi 
of the Order, and many supported him in the development of 
another center for Hermetic learning. 
In the last years of the 8th century and in the beginning of 
the 9th, the Order faced its first crisis of a political nature. The 
founders, those Magi who had formed the Order, were dying or 
otherwise leaving the world of mortals. In their wake the Order 
was left in disorder and its focus became blurred. In this period 
members decided on wider self-government, forming distinct 
borders and adjusting others, based on geography and distribu- 
tion of Covenants, to form the Tribunals that still operate in the 
13th century. 
During this period of shuffling borders and poor leader- 
ship, many young Magi migrated to the outer Tribunals, in 
search of freedom they lacked under the watchful eyes of their 
parens. Iberia drew its share of these young Magi and, in 
particular, the glories of the Caliphate of Cordova attracted 
many. While members of House Flambeau worked for the 
destruction of the Moslem government and for the Moslems’ 
expulsion from the peninsula, other Magi reveled in the culture 
of the Caliphate and Covenants were established in the lush 
valleys of al-Andalus (that part of Iberia controlled by the 
Moslems). Barcelona, with its rich mercantile trade and 
growing culture, also attracted Magi, though a Covenant was 
not established there for some time. The conflict between the 
desires of House Flambeau and Houses that benefited from the 
culture of the Caliphate plagued the Tribunal in centuries to 
come. Indeed, those conflicts may be at the foundation of 
conflicts that have since arisen between Magi supporting and 
opposing the Moslems, the two factions at times actually 
coming to magical blows. 
Descent into Schism 
As a result of the Order’s political decay ip the 9th century 
and in beginning of the loth, Wizard’s Wars became popular. 
Without constant threat of reprimand, old rivalries flared up 
and new ones broke out. Like adolescents testing their restric- 
tions, young Magi pushed their elders. They often died in the 
conflicts they provoked and many promising Magi fell to the sin 
of pride. The Iberian Tribunal, with a large population of 
Flambeau, was particularly plagued by Wizards Wars. The 
Quaesitoris in Iberia began to restrict Wizards Wars and 
regulated their conduct. They passed measures restricting 
Wizards Wars to certain seasons, and allowing Magi receiving 
notice of a War to refuse participation, appealing instead for 
intervention from the Quaesitoris (the last policy being imple- 
mented Order-wide). These restrictions were enforced by a 
strict cadre of Quaesitoris operating within the Tribunal. 
When scrolls were uncovered at Duresca Covenant in 937, 
revealing a plot by the founder of House Quaesitor to take 
control of the Order and use it as a tool to govern the world, 
outrage rippled through the Order. Iberia, in the center of the 
conflict, suffered most. Members of House Flambeau, and 
others chafing under the restrictive rules of the Quaesitoris, 
began to disregard the judiciaries’ directives, especially in 
regard to Wizards War. House Quaesitor dispatched several 
members to Duresca to investigate the scrolls and determine 
their authenticity. Of the eight Quaesitoris sent to Duresca, 
only five arrived. They included Quaesitor members of Houses 
Flambeau, Tytalus, Jerbiton, and two of House Guernicus. The 
other three died en route to the Covenant but the manner of 
their deaths was never discovered. 


--- Page ---

I 
... . 
I 
1 
The surviving Magi studied the scrolls and limited their 
distribution for the next three years. At a special Tribunal the 
evidence of the investigating Quaesitoris was presented and the 
scrolls were declared fraudulent. Many have complained that 
the Quaesitoris and the Praeco of the Iberian Tribunal acted in 
concert, to silence fighting factions. The original scrolls have 
since been destroyed but unofficial copies remain hidden in 
some Covenants, and may yet again shake the foundations of 
the Order. The issue of the scrolls served to not only breed 
mistrust between Magi in the Order, but also undermined the 
authority of the Quaesitoris, and generated some hostility 
toward the Iberian Tribunal. Indeed, some members of Houses 
Tremere and Tytalus, whether in the Iberian Tribunal or not, 
still view Iberia’s leaders with suspicion. 
The Quaesitoris that came to investigate the Duresca 
scrolls stayed on in that Covenant. They eventually assumed 
membership and invited other members of their House to join. 
Duresca’s turb of Grogs was expanded and some were even 
replacedwith those from other Covenants, loyal to Quaesitoris. 
Original members of the Covenant were allowed to remain but 
their filii were frequently sent on dangerous missions; many 
decided to move to other Covenants. Over the course of several 
decades, the Quaesitoris came to dominate Duresca. The 
Covenant now serves as the center of House Quaesitor in the 
Iberian Tribunal (see Durescain Chapter Five). The Covenant’s 
tendency toward manipulation and intrigue only justifies Tri- 
bunal wariness of Iberian Quaesitoris. Some Magi whisper that 
the Quaesitoris of Duresca actually guard some terrible truth. 
When, in the Schism War, House Tremere declared 
Wizard’s War on all of House Diedne, the Quaesitoris backed 
them by Renouncing House Diedne. The Quaesitoris, includ- 
ing those of Iberia, were desperate to regain hold of the Order’s 
laws (but maybe desperate to draw attention from themselves 
as well). House Flambeau and other scattered Magi joined 
House Tremere in the war against Diedne. Some of Diedne’s 
strongest Covenants were located in the northwestern part of 
Iberia, primarily in Galicia. Given that many Flambeau Magi 
were already located in Iberia, fighting the Moslems, it’s not 
surprising that Flambeau were largely responsible for the 
destruction of Spain’s Diedne wizards. If any single action 
jeopardized the Christian reconquest of Iberian lands, it may 
have been the Schism War, for Magus in-fighting actually 
undermined the Christian offensive; Christian Magi and peas- 
ants were killed, and Moslem sorcerers were allowed opportu- 
nity to galvanize their defenses. 
What Diedne wizards of Iberia survived the war cannot be 
said. Certainly many were killed, but more powerful members 
in Iberia disappeared, as the House’s leaders did. If the Diedne 
ever rise again, their vengeance on the Order may prove 
particularly harsh in Iberia, where the violent Flambeau still 
reside in some numbers. What effect a Diedne resurgence 
might have on the success of the Reconquista is another 
unanswerable question. It’s assured that the Diedne would care 
little for the mundanes’ war, so would exact revenge without 
consideration for political ramifications. 


--- Page ---

After the Schism 
In a backlash against the violence of the Schism War, the 
Quaesitoris, now backed by the power of Houses Tremere and 
Flambeau, slowly began to move the Order toward peace. 
Many young Magi, disillusioned by the actions of their parens 
and parens’s contemporaries, set out to found Covenants of 
their own. House Jerbiton came to the forefront of Hermetic 
politics at this time. Their connections to mortal powers aided 
the Order’s attempts to sooth the mundane populace, espe- 
cially after the Schism’s blatant use of mystical force. Relations 
with monasteries were also carefully cultivated and nurtured 
by Magi of Jerbiton. The Covenant of Barcelona was founded 
at this time, after the ruins of a Roman temple of Mercury were 
found within the city. Two followers of Jerbiton quickly 
secured title to the land. 
Construction of the Covenant, and the inn used to disguise 
it, was finished in 1014. The Magi who founded the Covenant 
invited others to visit and experience the culture blossoming in 
their fair city. However, the founders also learned the necessity 
of secrecy when operating in the city, so restricted their 
invitations to Magi they could trust. 
Shortly after its founding, the Covenant of Barcelona 
found itself in conflict with a sorcerous organization within the 
city. The Kabbalah, a Jewish mystical sect previously unknown 
to the Order of Hermes, objected to some of the Magi’s actions, 
claiming they endangered the welfare of the Kabbalah and the 
rest of the Jewish population. Local Christians were more than 
willing to blame any seemingly diabolic activity on the Jews and 
the Magi’s activities sparked retribution against the Jewish 
community. Though the conflict initially flared (at one point 
the Magi of Barcelona and members of the Kabbalah engaged 
in a mystic battle in the streets of the city), cooler heads 
prevailed. Reminded of the destruction of the recent Schism 
War, the Magi of Barcelona made peace with the Kabbalists. In 
1018, they escorted representatives of the Kabbalah to Tribunal 
and successfully negotiated a pact of non-interference between 
the Order and the Jews. This pact marks the first time that the 
Order of Hermes chose to live with non-Hermetic wizards. 
Earlier, any such wizards would have been assimilated or 
destroyed. 
Though the Covenant of Barcelona had ‘a small member- 
ship (only eight Magi at its most crowded) it began to build 
great influence within the Iberian Tribunal. The city of 
Barcelona had great resources of knowledge and had access to 
the trade routes of the Mediterranean. Trading these resources 
for favors and cultivating close ties with Iberian Quaesitoris, 
Barcelona earned political power that far outstripped its mem- 
bership. Magi of House Jerbiton that did not wish to live with 
the secrecy of an urban Covenant established Covenants in 
nearby areas. This allowed them to visit the fair city and still 
maintain freedom from the restrictions that Magi of Barcelona 
imposed. House Jerbiton eventually became the most popu- 
lous House in the lands of the Aragon-Catalan crown. 
‘ 
. 
. 
* 
In time, Magi belonging to Houses other than Jerbiton and 
Covenants other than Barcelona became jealous of Aragon- 
Catalan Magi. They threatened to come to Barcelona and take 
what they wanted of the city, in spite of the Covenant’s 
objections. In Tribunal they also claimed that the Covenant of 
Barcelona, by being located within a mundane city, was violat- 
ing the Code of Hermes and unduly meddling in the affairs of 
mortals. The Magi of Barcelona, in response, objected to Magi 
entering their city without proper safeguards of secrecy and 
subtlety. 
This issue came to a head at the Val-Negra Tribunal of 
1072. In arguments that lasted for several hours, representa- 
tives of Barcelona detailed their mundane relations within the 
city, and detailed those actions of other Magi that they objected 
to in the city. Barcelona’s enemies, in turn, argued that it was 
Barcelona’sattempt to restrict access to the city‘s resources that 
necessitated objectionable actions from those who entered. 
In response to accusations of mundane interference, the 
Magi of Barcelona called for a reading of the Code, from the 
presiding Quaesitor. At the quotation of, “Nor will I interfere 
with the affairs of mundunes and thereby bring ruin upon my 
sodalis,” the Magi pointed out that the abjuration was to not 
bring ruin upon their sodalis. Indeed, Flambeau hmself had 
used this interpretation to justih actions that were damaging to 
the Order, more damaging than mere attendance at parties and 
discussion of poetry with counts. The Magi of the Tribunal 
eventually agreed with the Barcelonan position and granted the 
Covenant jurisdiction over the city, and over all Magi that 
would enter it. In return the Covenant promised to keep peace 
between Magus and mortal, and to serve the Order’s interests 
in the city. The Covenant has continued without formal 
opposition ever since. 
The Rise’ of Roman Covenants 
The confusion that reigned in the mundane world after the 
death of Ferdinand I of Castile in 1065 was reflected in the 
Order of Hermes. While Fer&nand‘s heirs squabbled over his 
legacy, the Magi of the Order fought among themselves. These 
battles were largely about involvement in mundane affairs. 
Magi of House Flambeau often argued among themselves over 
which mundane ruler to support against the Moslems. As 
Alfonso VI gained prominence in Castile, followers of Flam- 
beau set aside their differences to aid him. Although they were 
limited in what support they could offer, the Magi were able to 
guarantee the delivery of Toledo into Alfonso’s hands. 
Ai the fundamentalist Almoravids stabilized the frontier, 
they initially brought a new intolerance to the lands of the 
Moslems. Many Islamic sorcerers were forced to flee the land 
subdued by these fanatical Mohammedans. The information 
they brought north with them was welcomed by some Magi and 
many Moslem sorcerers were accepted into the Order of 
Hermes. Magi of the Order did not escape the Almoravid 
invasion unscathed,’ though; some of the more southerly 
Covenants were destroyed. The actions and attitudes of these 
conquerors spawned widespread hatred among members of 
.- 


--- Page ---

- -  
the Order. While House Flambeau remained in the forefront 
of opposition to the Moslems, they were no longer alone in the 
Magi of House Flambeau redoubled their efforts to oust the 
Almoravid invaders, and were supported by sympathizers to 
their cause. Indeed, many Magi were loathe to report actions 
of House Flambeau against Moorish forces. Not only did 
-*- 
. 
sympathetic Magi covertly support House Flambeau’s ai&, 
they also feared retribution from the powerful House. 
However, members of House Jerbiton and those Moslem 
sorcerers who had joined the Order were upset at the freedoms 
‘Q\ f 
%A 
\ .\--= 
House Flambeau enjoyed with the Almoravid invasion. They 
took a longer view of the Iberian situation and recognized the 
culturing influence the peninsula was having upon the 
Almoravids, that outright war with them might not be neces- 
sary. With the support of House Jerbiton, the Grand Tribunal 
of 1096 sought to establish peace by redefining the boundaries 
of the Tribunals, placing Val-Negra within the Provenwl 
Tribunal. This move limited House Flambeau’s power within 
the Iberian Tribunal and effectively curtailed House Flambeau’s 
interference in mundane affairs. 
Though House Flambeau could not alter the decision of 
the Grand Tribunal, they did not fully respect it. Many 
members of Flambeau left Val-Negra to join Covenants in 
Iberia. Without the prestige and power of that elder Covenant, 
however, they did not wield the political power they had in the 
past. Many Flambeau Magi settled for venting their anger on 
a personal level. In particular, Moslem sorcerers who had 
joined the Order after fleeing the Almoravids were subjected to 
frequent attacks by members of House Flambeau. The violence 
of House Flambeau galvanized their opponents, in much the 
same way the initial intolerance of the Almoravids drew the 
Christian states out of their lone slumber. 
fight. 
- 
w 
-_=3-. 
.- 
- --.. 
- -_. *-* 
* 
,. 
-- 
4 
N- 
\% 
---*A? 
p 
%- 
-a 
-_ 
*- Y. .y 
% 
e:+ 
- 
*\ 
1 
Shades of the Schism 
* 
The conflict between Iberia’s Flambeau and those they 
opposed continued to escalate. Finally, in 11 18, the two sides 
met in direct conflict. Magi of House Flambeau worked with 
the leaders of the Kingdom of Aragon, during the mundanes’ 
1 
attack on Saragossa. A few Moslem Hermetic Magi prepared to 
defend the city in order to preserve the library it contained. In 
the battle Flambeau Magi held the upper hand. The Moslem 
Magi’s defensive efforts proved futile. Though no formal 
Wizard‘s War had been declared, the Moslem Hermetic Magi 
fell in the battle. 
In the aftermath, many Magi of the Order expressed their 
outrage at the actions of Flambeau. A special Tribunal was 
called to deliver the Order’s justice upon the Magi. Though the 
Code of Hemes specifically prohibits the killing of another 
I- member of the Order, the evidence against the Flambeau Magi 
p was scant. In the end, no evidence could be produced that 
indicated Flambeau Magi were directly responsible for the 
death of Moslem Hermetic Magi at Saragossa. Advocates of the 
deceased Magi argued that the Code also forbade interference 
in mundane affairs, that which brought ruin upon others of the 
r 


--- Page ---

The FCarnms Shadow 
w!zii-e 
CHAPTER THREE: 
HERMETIC 
HISTORY 
x 
The following material is background that you may incor- 
porate into a Saga set in the Iberian Tribunal. Indeed, this plot 
outline can be used for several stories, or applied as a backdrop 
to events of your own creation, in an Iberian Saga of your own 
devising. Although the following are presented as factual 
events which occur, you may alter them as needed, and may 
introduce characters to their unfolding as befits your story 
Order. The Flambeau responded by saying the deceased Magi 
were interfering in mundane affairs themselves, bringing ruin 
upon themselves. 
In the end, the Tribunal refused to order the execution of 
the attacking Flambeau, but did order them to return all loot 
they had gained to Covenants of the fallen Magi. After the 
Tribunal the Iberian Quaesitoris issued a blanket decree order- 
ing that no Magi of the Order would provide aid to a mundane 
power “overtly or with any sort of mgic that can be detected 
mortals.” This ruling limited the activities of Magi supporting 
Christian armies, as well as limiting those opposing the Chris- 
tians. And yet, the ruling did not altogether stop impassioned 
Magi. 
In the wake of the Quaesitoris’s ruling, the polarity of the 
opposing sides increasid. The southern Iberian Covenant of 
Estdncia-es-Karida was the first to define itself as a “Roman” 
Covenant. Its members believed that Moslems who ruled the 
southern portion of the peninsula were the true inheritors of 
Rome’s glory. They said the shaky Germanic alliance that 
called itself the Holy Roman Empire could not compare to the 
achievements of Mohammed’s followers. In spirit and culture, 
the Moslems were considered to be leading the way toward a 
rebirth of the Roman empire. Covenants that supported the 
Moslems called themselves “Roman” Covenants. 
Those who opposed these Magi believed the Moslems 
were barbarians, and that they now attacked the rightful rulers 
of the land. Just as Rome was sacked by barbarians, it was feared 
Covenants and cities of the north would be similarly destroyed. 
Covenants that supported Christian states defined themselves 
as “Reconquista” Covenants. A dichotomy was therefore set up 
in Iberia that has survived for decades. 
Meanwhile, the Almoravids became used to the luxury of 
southern Iberia, as Magi with foresight had previously pre- 
dicted. Indeed, the Almoravids became corrupted by it. How- 
ever, the Almohads, a Berber tribe recently converted to Islam, 
were expanding their territories to the south of the Almoravids. 
In 1147 the Almohads captured the Almoravid capital of 
Seville. This new wave of fundamentalist Moslems spread 
support for Reconquista Covenants. During the rise of the 
Almohads, the Covenant of Jaferiya rose to power under the 
leadership of Rasus, a follower of Flambeau (seeJaferiya, in 
Chapter Five). 
While Barcelona worked for peace between Reconquista 
and Roman Covenants, Jaferiya secretly provided support to 
Christian armies. The restrictions of the Quaesitoris limited 
their activities, though, so Jaferiya’s efforts made little immedi- 
ate difference in the peninsula’s reconquest. In Tribunal 
meetings, the question of how much support to provide to 
Reconquista efforts was hotly debated. Neither the Roman nor 
Reconquista Covenants could gather enough support to force 
their views upon the others. For years a tenuous stability has 
been maintained, right into the 13th century. 
concept. 
The Tribunal of 1207 
The Tribunal meeting of 1207 changes the state of the 
Iberian Tribunal and sends shock waves throughout the Order. 
In the years before the Tribunal, many new Covenants spring 
up in Iberia. The years of relative peace and growing wealth of 
the Christianstatesattractsmany Magi. And, Moslemareasstill 
hold a fascination for those who seek knowledge that might be 
languishing in Arabic libraries. The atmosphere of the Tribunal 
is one of enthusiasm from new Magi, and enthusiasm from 
older Magi who wonder how the newcomerswill fit into Iberia’s 
political spectrum. 
The Tribunal starts with minor controversy during the roll 
call. Terrace, a Magus ofJerbiton and second in seniority to the 
Praeco, is not in the council chamber, though he has been seen 
at the Tribunal site, just the day before the meeting. Matlus of 
Jerbiton, a member of the Barcelona Covenant and Praeco, calls 
the rest of the roll and petitions the Tribunal to allow him to 
hold Terrace’s sigil until Terrace return. Out of respect for 
older Magi, the Tribunalvotes to accept this proposal, given the 
restriction that Matlus can not use Terrace’s sigil to vote. 
Matlus agrees and opens the Tribunal with a characteristically 
rambling speech, welcoming new Magi to the Tribunal and 
expressing personal enthusiasm for the influx of new blood. 
When business matters are listed, the usual topics arise: 
disputes over rights to sources of vis, calls for Covenants to join 
together in action against the Moors, calls for them to act 
together against the Christians, and individual disputes that 
had not been resolved elsewhere. The Tribunal continues long 
into the evening with Magi making good progress on most 
issues. Matlus saves for last the troublesome and divisive issue 
of the Order’s role in the mortals’ war. Arguments occupy the 
majority of the Tribunal’s remaining time. Matlus ends the 
discussion, calling for a vote, when the chamber door suddenly 
bursts open. 
Terrace stumbles in, clothing tom and charred. Many 
Magi rush to his aid, some tending to his wounds, others trying 
to determine the nature of the elder’s distress. After regaining 
his breath, Terrace waves the Magi away, impatiently saying 
that he brings terrible news. After receiving the Tribunal’s 
attention, he reveals his whereabouts for the past day. 
Terrace reports that for months he received strange reports 
from merchants and pilgrims passing his Covenant. They 
spoke of midnight-black horses roaming the land, disappear- 
ing into foul-smelling clouds when chased. Bandit activity has 
-
_
.
s
 


--- Page ---

also been on the rise and Terrace suspected diabolic implica- 
tions. Normally he would have reported this information to the 
Quaesitoris but the reports all centered around one of Iberia’s 
Covenants. Not knowing the extent of any Magus’s involve- 
ment, he was loathe to falsely implicate anyone, so traveled to 
the Covenant by mystical means. Though he knew it was 
prohibited by the Code of Hemes, he stole into the Covenant 
and sought confirmation or denial of his worst fears. He found 
there confirmation, the Magi of the Covenant dealing with 
devils to the imperilment of their immortal souls. 
The Magi of the Tribunal cry out in shock at this revelation 
and demand the name of the Covenant that has so disgraced 
and endangered the Order. With a pale complexion and 
trembling voice, Terrace looks over the assembled Magi and 
speaks only one word: “Jajeriyu. ” 
New outrage sweeps through the gathering, but is loudest 
from the Magi ofJaferiya. Rasus, leader of that Covenant, roars 
for silence. As the Magi of Iberia look on, he denies the charges. 
He assures the Tribunal that he knows of no diabolical activity 
in his Covenant, and claims that none of his followers partake 
of such activities. He also points out that the only evidence 
brought against him and his Covenant comes from a Magus on 
the slide to final Twilight, a Magus who admits to breaking the 
Hermetic Code. 
With new strength, Terrace rises and offers to provide 
proof of his allegations. He has taken a piece of the floor tiling 
from Jaferiya’s council room. Within that room he claims to 
have found one of Hell’s servants. Baruch, the head Quaesitor 
5 
.-A 
-- 
of the Iberian Tribunal, strides across the room and seizes the 
piece of tile. W.ith a stem expression, he begins the enchant- 
ment Summoning ofDistant Images. As the Tribunal watches in 
silence, Baruch reports the things he sees and hears within 
Jaferiya’s council chamber. The chamber is marked by signs of 
a struggle and holds a demon of fearsome visage. The demon 
still rages within the confines of its magical prison and curses 
Rasus, who apparently has bound it upon earth. 
With this damning evidence, Rasus realizes his fate. He 
quickly gathers his followers and summons fire and smoke into 
the Tribunal gathering. In the confusion, the Magi of Jaferiya 
escape, casting destructive spells to clear a way through the 
Covenant’s very walls. Magi of the Tribunal race after the 
fleeing Flambeau Magi, but are only able to see them mount 
midnight-black steeds and ride across the air, away from the 
Covenant. Matlus calls for the attention of the Tribunal and 
proposes the last order of business: the Renunciation ofJaferiya’s 
Magi. The measure passes with overwhelming support and a 
Wizard’s March against Rasus and his minions is called by the 
Quaesitoris, just as the sun rises, marking the end of the 
Tribunal. 
It isn’t until some time later that members of the Tribunal 
realize that the question of the Order’s role in the Reconquista 
has not been addressed. Some try to call a special Tribunal to 
discuss the question but events of the regular Tribunal make 
many hesitant to travel far from their protected sancti. A few 
brave souls do travel to Jaferiya, to plunder its resources, but 
those that gain access to its fearsome halls find little left 
unburnt. A few months after the Tribunal, several groups are 
organized to track the Renounced Flambeau and bring them to 
Hermetic justice. 
The first of these groups is formed by Karandos, Arch- 
Mage of House Flambeau and the parens of Rasus. He meets his 
prodigy early in 1208, on the plains east of Toledo. The battle 
between the two Magi scars the land. Karandos is able to punish 
hisfilius and withstand Rasus’s attacks until Rasus calls upon 
demons for aid. Karandos seeks to &patch the servants of Hell 
but colliding forces of magic overtake him and he slips into 
Twilight. The rest of his group is able to contain Rasus’s 
minions and prevents them from killing Karbdos, but they 
cannot prevent the Renounced Flambeau from escaping. 
Karandos keeps himself from the edge of Final Twilight by 
sheer force of will. After this conflict he retires to the Cave of 
Twisting Shadows to learn what he can from the CriamonMagi. 
His hope, expressed in letters to other members of Flambeau, 
is to learn to control the magic that now burns within h 
body 
and to return to defeat Rasus. 
Shadow Wars 
For the next seven years, the Iberian Tribunal is thrown 
into tumult. Most Magi who had fought the Schism War are 
now either dead or passed into Twilight, but the memory of the 
war lingers. Like House Tytalus before it, all members of House 


--- Page ---

Flambeau come under scrutiny. The Quaesitoris, who had 
trusted many members of Flambeau as their enforcers, are now 
quick to investigate other members of the House. These 
investigations do turn up more diabolic members, but there is 
no apparent connection to the Magi of Jaferiya. Members of 
House Flambeau rail against invasions of their privacy and 
often suggest that all Houses in the Tribunal be subject to 
scrutiny. Some Quaesitoris take this suggestion and perform 
their investigations on entire Covenants, but the practice is not 
widespread. 
Meanwhile, news of House Flambeau’s corruption in 
Iberia circulates throughout the Order. House Tytalus speaks 
most harshly against Flambeau Magi, perhaps relishing the 
chance to turn the eye of suspicion on another House. Across 
Mythlc Europe, small bands of Magi come together to travel to 
Iberia, seeking to destroy Magi of Jaferiya. Many “bounty 
hunters” are from House Tytalus. Perhaps the most numerous 
outpouring, however, comes from House Flambeau itself. 
Karandos’s cry for all true followers of Flambeau to seek out and 
destroy the errant Magi of Jaferiya draws many to Iberia. 
Rasus and his minions are not easily defeated or caught. 
Within the span of seven years before the next Tribunal 
meeting, nearly fifty Magi fall in an effort to capture and kill the 
renegade Magi. Of the eight Magi known to be members of 
Jaferiya, three fall during this period. Of the remaining five, 
little trace can be found. Though their activities are widely 
scattered, it seems they still keep in contact with each other. 
Magi fleeing from conflict with one of the corrupted Magi are 
W 1 
ambushed by the followers of another, though no mundane 
messenger could travel swiftly enough to carry word of the 
refugees’ flight. 
As the years progress, meetings and conflicts between 
Tribunal Magi and Magi of Jaferiya grow fewer and virtually 
cease by the time of the Tribunal of 1214. The actions of the 
renegades are not stopped, however, and the effects of their 
presence can be felt throughout the peninsula. It seems the 
remaining followers of Rasus have slipped into the shadows 
and wait there to weave their evil plans. 
The renegade Magi become known as the Shadow Flam- 
beau. Rasus and the most subtle of his followers begin to 
ingratiate themselveswith Christiannobility. No longer bound 
by even the pretense of non-interference, the Shadow Flam- 
beau use their skill in the arts, and powers granted them by 
demons, to aid Christiak in the Reconquista. By keeping their 
identities and affiliations secret, the Shadow Flambeau are able 
to influence and guide Christian noblemen without coming 
under mortal suspicion. The greatest aid that the Shadow 
Flambeau provide Christians is at the decisive battle of Las 
Navas de Tolosa. 
The Battle 
~ 
~ 
The Shadow Flambeau aid Christian armies at the battle of 
Las Navas de Tolosa. Posingasashepherd who knows the area, 
one of the lesser Magi’of Jaferiya leads the army into the 
mountains of the Sierra Morena. Mists fall upon the gathering 
I 
g 
1 


--- Page ---

Death of the Praeco 
Three years after the previous Tribunal, the Praeco 
Matlus dies. Sbme think the strain of ridding a Tribunal of 
diabolic Flambeau is too much for the aging Magus. Others 
suspect foul play. When Matlus’s body is found, a circle of 
ash, about the size of a man’s thumb, is found on his right 
temple. No other marks are upon his body though his 
hands are also stained with ash. It seems obvious to all that 
Madus has either suffered a natural death, and made the 
mark upon himself during his death throes, or that Matlus 
was murdered and the crime belongs to the Shadow Flam- 
beau. The truth makes little practical difference. 
A search for the new Praeco begins. The eldest Magus, 
after Matlus, is the Magus Terrace, Follower ofJerbiton. His 
Covenant has fallen into its Winter Season and, with the 
help of the Quaesitoris of Duresca, begins to make ready for 
the upcoming Tribunal. The question is, is Terrace at the 
root of Matlus’s death, hoping to claim power for himself, 
and has he somehow arranged the whole rise of the Shadow 
Flambeau to get power? 
and Rasus opens a new pass through the mountains, allowing 
the Christians to pass without being seen by the Moslem force. 
Meanwhile, other followers of Rasus use magicks to display 
“heavenly” sights to the army. By the time the army gains the 
field, where the Moors are encamped, they believe they have 
been led through the mountains by an angel (see L a  Navas de 
Tolosa, @ Chapter Two, for more information). 
The mist that hdes the Christian army remains until the 
dawn of the next day. When it lifts, the Moors are surprised to 
see a Christian army where it simply cannot be. The leader of 
the Moorish army tries in vain to shift his force to meet the 
Christians. He even commands his bodyguards to chain 
themselves together to form a palisade along one flank. But the 
Christians have the advantage of position and surprise and are 
able to route the larger Moorish force. The Moors flee to Jatn 
while the Christians plunder the surrounding villages and 
towns. 
Shadow Flambeau participate in these raids but also 
pursue the destruction of any minor Covenants. With the aid 
of a band of Spanish knights, those corrupted members of 
Santiago, the Shadow Flambeau destroy two Covenants and 
kill most of their inhabitants before the Tribunal of 1214. 
The Tribunal of 1214 
Given the ravaging of the Shadow Flambeau since 1207, 
the Tribunal of 1214 is sparsely attended. Both Roman and 
Reconquista Covenants are represented but their great debate 
does not dominate this Tribunal. From the first, the actions of 
the Shadow Flambeau are the topic of discussion. Members of 
Roman Covenants are enraged at the actions of the renegades. 
Members of Reconquista Covenants, however, are in the 


--- Page ---

communication across the war-tom frontier much safer. (Al- 
though it’s never mentioned, some Magi do worry that the 
V - i  
CHAPTER THREE: 
i 
portals will be used illegally, to invade the suncti of other Magi.) 
precarious position of supporting the results of the Shadow 
Flambeau’s actions, while detesting the agents of those actions. 
Given continued differences, Magi at the meeting cannot agree 
on any concerted action against the Renounced Magi. 
Still, the danger of letting the Shadow Flambeau run loose 
is evident. The battle of Las Navas de Tolosa, but two years 
earlier, is ample evidence of the lengths that Shadow Flambeau 
willgo toinpursuit oftheir goals. ThealliancebetweenShadow 
Flambeau and mundane military forces also poses a serious 
problem. Since the Shadow Flambeau know the locations of 
Iberia’s Covenants, and Iberia’s Magi repeatedly fail to find the 
Flambeau, the Shadow Flambeau have a serious advantage. If 
the Tribunal should act to oppose them, the Shadow Flambeau 
could easily disclose the locations of Covenants to mundane 
allies. The result would be the destruction of the Iberian 
Tribunal. 
In the end, it’s decided that the Shadow Flambeau cannot 
be allowed to continue their actions in mockery of the Order 
and Code. Caught between the prospect of being destroyed if 
they drectly oppose the Shadow Flambeau, or being destroyed 
if they do nothing, Iberia’s Covenants strike upon a unique 
alternative. 
In a landmark decision, the Covenants form a pact of 
mutual protection. The pact is influenced by similar defense 
leagues among the peninsula’s cities. Under these agreements, 
cities each form a militia. These forces are combined in the 
event of an attack upon one city. The Magi of the Tribunal agree 
that, should any Covenant be attacked by magical or mundane 
forces, each of the others will send at least one Magus. 
However, distances between Iberian Covenants, many in 
remote and rugged areas, pose a problem for the application of 
the treaty. To facilitate its use, the Quaesitoris are instructed to 
construct a series of Hermes Portals so that word of an attack 
can be communicated swiftly. Covenants so linked are respon- 
sible for providing the vis necessary to complete the rituals. It’s 
also decided that Covenants under attack, and that request aid 
from others, will repay the vis necessary for travel to their 
Covenant. 
By 1218theCovenantsofDuresca,Barce~ona,andEstAncia- 
es-Karida are connected by Hermes Portals. From these three 
Covenants the network of portals eventually spreads to every 
free Covenant of the Iberian Tribunal. Members of House 
Mercere particularly appreciate the network of portals, making 
To the Fall of Granada 
With the advent of the mutual protection agreement, 
attacks of Shadow Flambeau upon other Covenants gradually 
cease. The Flambeau instead work their way into advisory 
positions of Christian rulers, leading attacks upon the remain- 
ing cities of the Moors. Individual Magi still try to hunt down 
and kill the renegades but they have little success. 
The Grand Tribunal of 1261 begins the process of ending 
Shadow Flambeau rampages. The Tribunal rules that actions 
of the Shadow Flambeau so endanger the Order that the Magi 
must be found and killed. The Grand Tribunal orders the 
whole Iberian Tribunal to seek out and destroy its renegade 
Magi. In the Iberian Tribunal meeting of 1270 the Praeco 
organize a band of Magi who agree to actively search out 
remaining Shadow Flambeau and bring them to Hermetic 
justice. This group is to also expose the demonic dealings of 
Shadow Flambeau to those Christian leaders they assist. In the 
thirty years that follow, the remaining followers of Rasus, and 
those they have trained after being Renounced, are captured or 
revealed to Christian rulers. Rasus is never found. 
In exposing diabolic Magi to Catholic rulers of Spain, the 
Order of Hermes makes a fatal error. The Shadow Flambeau are 
turned over to the Inquisition by mundane monarchs, and are 
held for questioning by that arm of the Church. The Inquisition 
does not distinguish between dealings with Satan and the 
practice of magic. Knowledge held by Shadow Flambeau about 
the Order brings great destruction to Magi in Iberia. Fortu- 
nately, the larger Order’s contacts within the Church are able 
to convince the clergy that the evilislimited to Iberia, andmuch 
of the remaining Order is spared the destruction of the Spanish 
Inquisition. 
The efforts of the Inquisition bring about the destruction 
of EstAncia-es-Karida in 1357. As the forces of the Church close 
upon the besieged Covenant, Magi and other inhabitants flee 
through their Hermes Portal. The last person in Estdncia-es- 
Karida, a Magus specialuing in Terram magicks, destroys the 
Portal to prevent the Inquisition from tracing his fellows, and 
then collapses the buildings of the Covenant upon himself. 
I 
1 
I 


--- Page ---

iscussed in this Chapter are many of Iberia's 
physical locales. While it is impossible to 
offer complete detail on all regions, typical 
geography is presented to introduce you to 
Iberia. Also presented is a broad overview of the Tribunal's 
culture. Keep in mind that these are generalizations and any 
individual may or may not reflect these cultural tendencies. 
Also provided throughout this Chapter are the notes of 
Avira Cepheus, one of the Redcaps assigned to the Iberian 
Tribunal. Her journal entries, made on her travels throughout 
the region, offer insight and flavor on the peninsula. Included, 
too, are the observations of Matlus of Jerbiton, Praeco of the 
Iberian Tribunal in the late 12th and early 13th centuries. 
Whether the insights of either are accurate is debatable. How- 
ever, even fables and rumors tend to have foundation in reality. 
Also note that the first city described is Barcelona, the 
capital of the Aragon-Catalan crown. Barcelona is investigated 
in more detail than other places because it represents a cross- 
roads of the entire peninsula. With Iberian people, French 
culture, Moslem influences, a strong Jewish presence, and 
connections to the rest of the Mediterranean, Barcelona bears 
parts of the entire peninsula. 
For the landscape and political boundaries of the Tribunal, 
see the Iberia map. 
Crown 
~ 
This geographic region actually begins in the mountain 
kingdom of Navarre. Navarre holds the western passes through 
the Pyrenees and sits high on the shoulders of those mighty 
mountains. The alpine country is cool and picturesque. Pine 
trees and wild roses line the hills, their carpet of green broken 
only by lonely mountain peaks or the tumble of a waterfall. As 
the land falls to the south and east the Ebro River follows it and 
the thick forest gives way to plains. The city of Saragossa has 
forests to its north, but a short distance south are green fields 
which give way, in turn, to dry, undulating plains. 
The eastern coast has a low region bordering the Mediter- 
ranean but it is a narrow strip of land. Immediately behind it, 
the hills begin to rise like buttresses to the high plateau and the 
mountains. Valencia is a great agricultural center, growing 
oranges and rice on the terraced hills behind the city. These 
hills, irrigated by the Moslems, would quickly become barren 
if the city did not ration its water. For hundreds of years a water 
council has regulated the irrigation that each field receives, 
assuring that all receive some. 
Culture 
In Aragon, the differences of th 
The nobility are privileged feudal lords with power over the 
servile classes. Lords have the right to kill their serfs. Serfs are 
J 
- _  


--- Page ---

Avira Cepheus on Aragon-Catalonia 
~~ 
“When traveling in the lands of the Aragon-Catalan 
crown, take your time. The Magi of House Jerbiton are 
numerous here and know the kinds of creature comforts that 
travelers longfor after arduous journeys. Even uwuyftom the 
Covenants of the order, it is possible tofind a bed and meal. 
Monasteries dot the countryside and offer shelter to traveling 
pilgrims. Women should be wary while staying overnight but 
if they present themselves as noblewomen, the monks should 
curb any lewd desires. Food in this land is hardy and plentifil 
and meals areagrand social occasion. Even simple hermandes 
can command a troubadour orjuggler for entertainment. The 
King ofAragort-Cutalonia keeps his lands underfair laws and 
tuxes. Banditry is not as common along the main roads ofthe 
kingdom as in other areas, but ijyou shouldstrayfrom the main 
trail you take a greater risk.” 
tied to the land they live on and are bought and sold with that 
land. The people of Aragon live in communal family groups. 
Married couples move into the house of the groom. 
In Catalonia, the feudal hierarchy also exists. Catalonia 
has a large Jewish population that enjoys relatively fair treat- 
ment. Restrictive measures are enforced against the Jews late 
in the 13th century. Unlike Aragon, artisans and other mem- 
bers of the middle class are very important in Catalonia, 
particularly in coastal cities, where they enjoy great privileges. 
Apart from these differences, the lives of people in Aragon- 
Catalonia are generally similar to those of Castile. 
The politics of Aragon-Catalonia are also similar to those 
of Castile. One difference is the existence of the office of 
Justicia, or Justice. TheJusticia is charged with hearing cases of 
violation of privilege and hearing complaints against the au- 
thorities. Though nominally an independent arbitrator, the 
Justiciu is appointed by the king and holds authority by delega- 
tion from the king. Thus in disputes between king and nobility 
theJusticia often sides with the crown. Rei En Jaume, who 
comes to power after 1213, is compelled by nobles to recognize 
the functions of theJusticia as independent of the king, giving 
the nobility an independent judge in their disputes with the 
crown. This independence also allows theJusticia to be bought 
by the highest bidder. When the Kingdom of Aragon unites 
with the county of Barcelona, the people of the former benefit 
from the universal adoption of the Vstages, a code of laws 
enacted by Ramon Berenguer I of Barcelona. 
The Kingdom of Aragon-Catalonia has a strong mercantile 
trade. Until the capture ofValencia, Aragon-Catalonia has only 
limited agricultural resources, but its industry and commerce 
make it wealthy. Catalan ships trade in every part of the 
Mehterranean. Principal relationships, and rivalries, are with 
Italy. Trade treaties between Pisa and Genoa and the Aragon- 
Catalan crown are quite common. The reign of Jaume I brings 
a new age of commercial trade and Jaume is responsible for 
establishing commercial representatives, or consuls, in foreign 
countries. These consuls are empowered to adjudicate the 
commerce of citizens of Aragon-Catalonia. They resolve 
% 


--- Page ---

A 
A 
Matlus on Horses 
“Everything is getting better inBarcelona because the city 
is getting wealthier and wealthier every day. There arefresher 
spices,finer clothes,fancier inns, better doctors, udmoremeat 
to be had. You are lucky you were not around a hundred years 
ago when things wme not nearly this good. But all this wealth 
has brought a serious problem: horses. A hundred years ago 
horses were fairly rare because they were expensive to buy and 
expensive tofeed. Not only that, they are ugly and stupid. 
Anyhow, now that Barcelona is pulling in all this gold, 
everyone is buying horses. 
“For one thing, you cannot be taken seriously as a warrior 
in Barcelona unless you have a horse. In other lands thefoot 
soldier is still central to an army, but not here. Here it is a horse 
or nothing, and probably a big, mean one if you can get it. 
“It would not be so bad ijit were only the almogdvers who 
had horses, but now the peasants think that they need them, too. 
So all across the countryside they are getting uppity, skittish, 
stupid horses instead ofplacid, peacebl, gentle oxen. It just 
makes me sick. 
“Ofall the domesticated beasts, I would bet that horses are 
the most sensitive to magic. No, make that the cat. Cats are 
more sensitive to magic, but then they kind of enjoy it. But 
horses, they are sensitive to it and hate it. They are always 
prancing around, whinnying, snufling, und snorting when I 
walk by. Some of them have even tried to bite me. And when 
a horse bites, it can open its mouth only after its teeth have come 
together, so ifit gets ahold ofyourfinger, it will hang on until 
it has bitten clear through. One time, this big, warty warhorse 
almost chomped my hand ofl! 
“Oh, that reminds me. Have you ever seen the expression 
on an almogdver‘sface when the horse that cost him 700 
quarternales suddenly heels over dead?” 
the area of the out-buildings is constantly expanding. As a 
general rule, the further one goes from the inner city, the more 
open and more poor neighborhoods become. 
There are two calls, walled Jewish neighborhoods, within 
Barcelona. They are extremely crowded, and the Jewish 
community contains some of the wealthiest and poorest of the 
city. These calls and the area of Barcelona within the Roman 
walls are the only places that survived the Moslem conquest of 
the city. The walls of the calls serve to protect Jewish residents 
from the rest of the population, but also isolate them. Many 
erroneously believe that all Jews within the calls are wealthy. 
Several dense neighborhoods are gathered around churches 
and monasteries on the hills that surround Barcelona. These 
neighborhoods generally house more intellectual and religious 
people than do other neighborhoods. The monasteries are 
often centers of learning, though only the upper classes have 
the time and money to spend beyond daily survival. 
disputes and represent their countrymen’s interests in foreign 
courts. As several of these agents are in league with the Dark, 
they also ensure that Iberian activities abroad spread the 
Shadow. 
. 
BARCELONA 
1 
c 
Thecenteroftheci~isanareaencloedwithinancientRoman 
walls. Th~wallsstandsometenpaces~~andtheareawithin 
them encompasses a relatively small part of the city. Buildings 
within the walls are generally constructed of stone. By law, no one 
canconsauctabuildingwithinthreepacesof thewalls,norcanany 
buildingadjacent to awallbemorethansixpaceshigh. Important 
citizens frec[uently get personal exemptions from this law because 
the people of Barcelona are confident they will never be sieged (at 
least by mundane forces. . .>. 
Surrounding the walled, central part of the city is a 
sprawling collection of houses in many styles. These buildings 
cover an area much wider than that contained by the walls and 
Barcelona’s Dominion 
Daytime 
3 
Nighttime 
2 
Sunday 
+1 
Holidays 
4 or 5 
Day between Good Friday and Easter 
1 


--- Page ---

w R i i i - 4 1  
CHAPTER FOUR: IBERIAN LANDSCAPE - 
. . . . . 
. 
.. .. 
The docks are the scene of constant activity: loading, 
unloadmg, selhng, trading, and hiring. Work continues through- 
out the night, though more slowly. The docks are the poorest 
and most dangerous part of the city, filled with indigent 
transients, drunken sailors, escaped slaves, desperate 'foreign- 
ers, and assorted criminals. . 
The streets of Barcelona are narrow and crowded. The 
daily need to get food into the city for its 30,000 inhabitants, 
and the push to get goods to and from ships, creates an 
environment of constant motion. Only the inner city, within 
the Roman walls, has a sewer system. The outer streets are 
cursed with a foul aroma. If there is no rain, waste rots in the 
streets. When there is rain, streets turn to mud. The city slopes 
down to the sea, and much of the waste works its way down, 
adding to the vile reputation of the dock area. 
To compensate for crowding, most buildings have more 
than one story. Ground floors are usually stone and floors 
above wooden. Wealthy citizens may have low walls built 
around their homes, for security and to isolate them from the 
masses. In particular, wealthy Jews tend to build walled homes 
near the calls to gain relief from the crowding within. During 
outbreaks of religious hatred, residents of these homes often 
retreat within the call. 
Surrounding Barcelona are high hills, and on their slopes 
lie farms, vineyards, and the mansions of the wealthy. At night 
the hills are black, spotted by the tiny lights of hearth fires. 
The overall layout of the city is provided by the Barcelona 
map. For the lay of the city's center, see Barcelona - 
The Old 
City. 
People 
Barcelona is home to approximately 30,000 people. Most 
of them are artisans (skdled manual laborers), but the city has 
a large number of people with specialized skdls whose services 
are needed to maintain the large city. These specialists include 
lawyers, doctors, scribes, translators; merchants, and money- 
lenders. Those who live off the wealth of others, such as thieves 
and artists, also abound. Five thousand of the inhabitants of 
Barcelona are Jews, who enjoy more rights here than in 
northern countries. 
Foreigners from all the lands of the Mediterranean live 
here. Some are wealthy merchants from Florence, Genoa, 
Venice, and Rome. Sailors' and merchants from more distant 
lands, such as Byzantium and Egypt, can also be found. Other 
foreigners include slaves captured by Catalan pirates or pur- 
chased in oriental markets. Turks, Sardinia-, Tunisians, 
Saracens, Greeks, and Tartars can be found among Barcelona's 
slaves. Some of these same ethnic groups are represented 
among the free laborers, especially dockworkers. 
Half of Barcelona's population is under thirteen years of 
age, and thus that portion is largely free of Infernal influence 
(demons tempt the young, but their usual naivete often invali- 
dates sins performed ignorance is bliss). However, disease 


--- Page ---

I 
takes a heavy toll, especially among infants and children. Once 
they survive childhood, Barcelonans have a decent chance of 
exceeding sixty years of age (but often with the help of the 
Infernal). 
Around Barcelona 
The most important direction from Barcelona is southeast, 
to the sea. Ships from Barcelona sail to Tunis, Italy, Alexandria, 
and to all the other important sites along the Mediterranean 
coast. To the south are the Balearic Islands, currently held by 
the Moors. To the east and north are the trading cities of 
Florence, Venice, Genoa, and Pisa, fierce (even cutthroat) 
competitors for Mediterranean trade. 
North of Barcelona are the Pyrenees, and north of them is 
Languedoc. Languedoc, under the rule of Rei En Pere’s cousin 
Ramon of Toulouse, is subject to the Aragon-Catalan crown. 
West of Barcelona lies‘the bulk of Catalonia and Aragon, 
cut up into countless tiny plots and petty noble holdings where 
too many lords vie for too little land. Any of these lords are 
prepared to employ wizards to gain an edge over their neigh- 
bors. Beyond are the Christian kingdoms of Navarre, Castile, 
and Lebn. The crown has put aside former differences with 
these kingdoms to take Moorish lands to the south. Now the 
old competitions take the form of disputes over division of 
captured territories. 
Much of the land just west and south of Barcelona was 
reconquered from the Moors in the last century, including 
important cities such as Saragossa, Lleida, and Tortosa. Moors 
still live in these lands, mostly as skilled artisans. Rumors of 
Moslem sorcerers hidden among these folk are often heard. 
Power and Politics 
Barcelona, historically the seat of the Duke of Barcelona, is 
now the seat of the Aragon-Catalan crown. Rei En Pere el 
Catblic (King Don Peter the Catholic) is King at the beginning 
of the 13th century. He is primarily responsible for overseeing 
the reconquest of Moorish lands and the tending to affairs of 
other kings. Overseeing the spiritual life of the city is Bishop 
Berenguer de Palau. He is a strong advocate of reconquest and 
pushes Rei En Pere to lead his men into battle. The Bishop owns 
a third of the land within the city‘s walls, and owns a good deal 
of surrounding fannland. Handling the bustle of city life, such 
as policing and trade regulation, is the Veguer (bay-gay), the 
“mayor” of Barcelona, who is aided by several Sots-Veguers, his 
consultants and assistants. The Veguer’s power is demon- 
strated in the city guard. The King appoints the Veguer. 
Important crimes are judged by magistrates appointed by the 
Veguer. Petty crimes are often dealt with directly by city guards, 
many times right on the street. 
Merchants discuss matters that are important to them, 
such as foreign competition and maritime law, but they have 
not yet formed true guilds. From the merchants arise the 
majority of petitions to the court, for better policing, trade 
protection, and public works. The merchants depend on 
Jewish moneylenders for the capital they need. Christians are 
forbidden to charge interest on loans. Interest from Jews often 
exceeds 50%, but there is so much money to be made that 
merchants still profit. Large numbers of coins move through 
the city and coins of gold are often used for large transactions. 
Most goods are more expensive in Barcelona than in other 
areas, because money is more plentiful here. 
Jews have a primary role in Barcelonan politics. While 
upper class Christians learn the art of war to fight the Moors, 
upper class Jews learn the arts of law, medicine, and language. 
Their positions within the palace as lawyers, doctors, and 
scribes make them indispensable to the government. Through 
this power, they avoid the most heinous of the anti-Semitic laws 
that apply to Jews in other lands. 
The Spanish crusading orders are relative newcomers to 
Barcelonan politics. They have vast resources of land and 
money, enjoying popular support and admiration. Although 
the crusaders have no official political power, the King takes 
their opinions into account (maybe because their Infernal ties 
influence him subconsciously). 
Time 
People in Barcelona, especially those in business and law, 
need an efficient system to coordinate their actions and to meet 
at the right time. To this end, they are very aware of the position 
of the sun and stars. They use these to calculate hours but 
usually use hours in relation to dawn, dusk, noon, or midnight. 
They say, “An hour before noon,” for instance, rather than 


--- Page ---

f 
. “eleven o’clock. ” In less advanced areas, people use much more 
informal time keeping methods, such as “late morning some 
time, ” or “around noon. ” 
The most important work is done between dawn and dusk, 
when the gates to the inner city are open and the sun makes time 
keeping easy. Overcast nights are called “party nights” because 
those who had dates for specific times have no way to tell time 
and often consider appointments cancelled. The phrase is used 
ironically by thieves, for whom the lack of moon and starlight 
. isagreatboon. 
Language 
The language of Barcelona is Catalan, which is so similar 
to Provencal that troubadours from Toulouse and merchants 
from Barcelona can understand each other. 
. Latin is used by the clergy and nobility, but some writers, 
especially poets, have begun to create Catalan literature. He- 
brew is the written and holy language of the large Jewish 
population, but Catalan is still their first language. Arabic is 
important in learned circles because ancient Greek writings, 
lost for centuries in Mythic Europe, have been preserved in 
Arabic translations of the Orient. The Street of Translators has 
many shops where just about any language can be translated. 
“Barbaric” languages, such as Welsh, Irish, and Norse, how- 
ever, are virtually unknown. 
The Fine Arts 
Sculptors and painters work mainly for the Church. The 
style popular in Barcelona is regarded as especially fine and 
realistic. Clothes designers are extremely popular here, work- 
ing with a great variety of textiles and dyes available almost 
nowhere else. The fashionable and wealthy travel to Barcelona 
to buy the latest and best clothing. Jewish poets of Barcelona 
are highly regarded. Those that compose in Catalan even find 
audiences among Christians. 
DEMONS 
IN BARCELONA 
As they pervade all reaches of Mythic Europe, Spain, and 
Barcelona in particular, is infested by the forces of the Infernal. 
Demons find Barcelona attractive because its relatively enlight- 
ened (adult) populace, given Jewish, Arabic, and Hermetic 
influence, is capable of thought beyond the typical primal urge. 
Adult Barcelonans therefore offer demons a greater challenge 
than does the average Mythic European. Barcelonans need to 
be subtly coaxed toward sin, requiring clever trickery. Their 
educated minds are also capable of imagining all forms of sin 
and corruption, offering entertainment to the demons who 
fulfill citizens’ whims. It comes as no surprise, then, that 
Barcelona contains the most twisted souls of the whole Iberian 
Tribunal. 


--- Page ---

Matlus on Demons 
“Me, I am not much worried about demons in Barcelona. 
Tyritescus, he is the demon in charge ofBarcelona, and he says 
he has been around since Roman times. Well, if he has been 
working on Barcelona all that time, you can be sure he is afool, 
a weakling, or both. In my time, Barcelona has just gotten 
better and wealthier and happier. The Church has gotten 
stronger here all the time, with monks and nuns and knights 
moving in and setting up shop. The worst thing he has ever 
done, near as I can see, is bring in all these damned horses. No, 
Ifigure 02’ Tyritescus just is not big enough to keep Barcelona 
down. 
“But that does not mean Tyritescus will not be after afm 
comptible Magi. Keep your wits about you, and you will be 
fine. Do not takegijtsfrom strangers and do not signyour name 
to anything. 
“Your real danger is not Tyritescus, it is diabolists. They 
are vile, desperate, black-hearted creatures, diabolists. All the 
cruelty of demons and none ofthe class. We burned out apack 
oj them back in Anno Domino 1163. They were slowly 
poisoning the noble Saportajamily with stu. that made them 
slightly crazed and violent. We figured the diabolists were 
trying to bring about an internal war that would have de- 
stroyed thesaportas completely, and I hadfriends in that clan! 
We found out about the plot and torched them. They gave off 
quite a stench, too, I tell you. I think brimstone gets in their 
blood when they become diabolists, and you can smell it ifyou 
set them onfire. I would suggest more subtle means of killing 
them ifyou ever run across another pack of the littlefiends. 
“Now Tyritescus himself, he is not such a badfellow. He 
probably was not behind that diabolist plot. It was more likely 
personalvengeance on thepart ofthediabolists. No, Tyritescus 
can even be downright cordial, ifyou give him the chance and 
let him know you are his superior, or at least his equal. He d 
I talked late into the night once; the things he knows about 
Barcelona’s history are incredible. 
“By the way, ifa Quaesitor ever asks about that chat I had’ 
with Tyritescus, I was carefully sizing up his weaknessesunder 
pretense of conversing with him. Oficially, it wcls all legal 
business, got it?” 
Tyritescus, the Betrayer 
Barcelona, like most great cities in Christendom, has a 
demon in charge of corrupting its inhabitants. Barcelonans are 
under the watchful eye of Tyritescus, the demon of betrayal. 
When the first Christians came to RomanBarcelona, Tyritescus 
asked permission of his Master to watch over the city. It was 
granted, and he has been working here ever since, refining his 
technique throughout the centuries. One of his first actions 
was to orchestrate the execution of two early Christians, Eulalia 
and Cucufas. Once martyred, they became saints and models 
for others, and this direct, forceful move was an error that 
Tyritescus still regrets to this day. An immortal being, he 
remembers his failure like it was yesterday. Since then he has 
become more subtle. 
Another important plot of the demon’s, one that took the 
better part of a century in execution, was the arrangement of 
Aragon and Catalonia’s union in the 12th century. While the 
union did not aid Hell, and while it was out of Tyritescus’s 
jurisdiction, it did make him and his city much more impor- 
tant, centering the crown in Barcelona. Tyritescus is quite 
happy with himself, and other demons envy him for taking a 
tiny Roman city and shaping it into one of Mythic Europe’s 
most important. 
Tyritescus has the right to torment all lost souls that come 
to and originate from Barcelona, so he is eager to spread 
corruption. To minions who serve him well Tyritescus gives 
the right to torment select souls, such as those they helped 
corrupt. Eager for this reward, Tyritescus’s minions work hard 
at their jobs. 
Tyritescus is a very intelligent devil but has access to very 
little intellectual stimulation. His smartest servitor, H a t ,  is 
more cunning than high-minded. Frankly, Tyritescus has no 
one to talk to. In the past he held a series of conversations with 
Matlus, the Praeco of the Iberian Tribunal, about the history of 
Barcelona. He originally intended these conversations as a ploy 
to corrupt Matlus, but Tyritescus came to enjoy them in their 
own right, given Matlus’s keen intellect and thoughtful inquir- 


--- Page ---

Tyritescus 
Infernal Might: 54 
Vital Statistics: Size 0, Intelligence (wdy) +5, Perception 
(insighhl) +3, Strength (athletic) +3, Stamina (endurind +3, 
Presence (regal) +5, Communication (charming) +3,De.~t~i~O, 
Qulcknesso 
Personality Traits: Trustworthy -5 
Reputation: Breaker of Hell’s Laws (local demons) 3 
Confidence: 5 
Combat Totals: 
. Unarmed Totals: First Strike 4, Attack 4, Damage +12 
(+1 per extra Strength point) 
Body Levels: OK, O/O, -l/-1, -3/-3, -5, Banished 
Dodge Defense see Blink ofsafety, below; Soak+lO (16 
Psychomachia: Pride +3, Treacherous +4, 
Possession: +4 Escape 
Spirit Form Powers: 
Loosen the Ties, ReMe 30,2 Points - 
Makes the ties of 
duty, family, and love seem insignificant and easily forget- 
table. Tyritescus must be careful to apply this power 
delicately, for only evil that is freely chosen corrupts a soul. 
This power is much more subtle than Psychomachia, and 
reserved for special victims whom Tyritescus especially 
seeks to corrupt. 
Action); Fatigue n/a 
Physical Form Powers: 
Blink of Safety, ReCo 25, 1 Point per Round - 
Allows 
him to instantly move up to six feet to avoid any attack he 
is aware of. He is not at all disturbed by this movement, and 
can hold a normal conversation while blinking all over a 
room. 
StrengthoftheDumned, CrCo25,1 Pointper+] bonus- 
For each Infernal Might Point he uses, Tyritescus gets a +1 
bonus to his Strength for one Round, up to a maximum 
bonus of +7. Tyritescus kills those that truly annoy him, 
using his bare hands! 
Burst Bonds; PeHe, Te, An 5; 1 Point -Bursts all bonds, 
such as ropes and chains used to secure things or people, 
that are in Tyritescus’s presence. 
Spirit Form 
In spirit form he can travel and spy freely, though rarely 
Physical Form 
In physical form, Tyritescus is a distinguished-looking 
man who hides the small horns projecting from his fore- 
head under a large, elegant hat. He rarely deigns to 
participate in physical combat, and is insulted by any who 
so challenge him. 
If banished back to Hell, Tyritescus leaves his physical 
form behnd. There are 15 pawns of Vim vis in it, sped- 
cally in his horns. 
does so. 
4 
ies. Given the chance, Tyritescus gladly has similar conversa- 
tions withanyone smart enough and brave (foolhardy?) enough 
to talk to him. 
Tvritescus in Hell 
J 
Many devils see Tyritescus as something of an upstart. His 
campaign to unite Aragon and Catalonia was definitely out of 
his assigned jurisdiction, and it took power away from other 
devils who were working in Aragon, hoping to make it power- 
ful. 
One of Tyritescus’s rivals is Sucelcus, who is in charge of 
corrupting Iberia’s Templars and Spanish crusading orders. 
Sucelcus’s minion, Iernolaca, is specifically in charge of cor- 
rupting Barcelona’s crusaders. Iernolaca has the right to work 
within Barcelona, independently of Tyritescus, and the two 
consider each other a nuisance. 
The devil Buniserga, Mistress of Mists, is an outright 
enemy of Tyritescus. Buniserga mocked Tyritescus’s request to 
work in the small Roman city of Barcelona. She chose another 
promising Roman city in Italy, that has since reverted to a mere 
village, so is envious of Tyritescus’s success. Even against the 
best interests of Hell Buniserga sometimes interferes with 
Tyritescus’s plans. 
C ormp tion 
As the Master of Betrayal, Tyritescus has a special ability 
regarding those he corrupts. If he can get them to break five ties, 
he gains extra power over a victim. These ties are to: Church, . 
family, friends, one’slord (or other superior), and oneself (such 
as breaking one’s word). For example, Father Cucufas (see 
Hum& in Hell’s Service, below) has broken hls vow of obedi- 
ence, betraying Church, superiors, and his own word in one 
act. Furthermore, he has rejected his “impious’! family and 
those friends who are not “holy” enough to deserve his com- 
pany. 
Anyone who breaks all five ties suffers -5 on all rolls to 
resist the magic of Tyritescus and his minions. In addition, 
Magi who break these ties’get only half their normal Magic 
Resistance against the demons’ powers, and the demons get 
double their normal Resistance against corrupted Magi’s magic. 
Since many Magi hafe already broken their ties with family and 
Church, they are already on the way to corruption. 
I 


--- Page ---

Hesst, Tyritescus’s Chief Spy 
This deformed, ugly demon is Tyritescus’s chief tacti- 
cian, spy, and diplomat. He is in charge of working with 
diabolists and other corrupt humans. 
Infernal Might: 25 
Vital Statistics: Size -1, Intelligence (sly) +6, Percep- 
tion (nervous) +4, Strength (sinewy) +4, Stamina (resil- 
ient) +5, Presence (misshapen) -3, Communication (fawn- 
ing) +7, Dexterity (swift hand) +1, Quickness (darting 
moves) +1 
Personality Thit~: 
Cra~en +3, Lusty +3, Tnx~tw~rthy 
-5 
Reputation: Toady (powerful demons) 1 
Confidence: 3 
Combat Totals: 
Hatchet Totals: First Strike +8, Attack +8, Damage +10 
Body Levels: OK, -1, -3, -5, Banished 
Dodge +8 (14 Action); Soak +12, +18 vs. non-iron 
Psychomachia: None 
Possession: None 
Spirit Form Powers: 
See the Soul, Idm 30,2 Points - 
Lets Hesst see what a 
human is thinking for about a minute. If Hesst uses this 
power more than once on a given person, the person feels 
uneasy and even a little ill. 
weapons (J8,24 
Action); Fatigue n/a 
Gentlesuggestion, CrMe 15,3Points-LetsHesst insert 
an idea into the target’s mind as if it were the target’s own 
thought. The thought has no special power over the target, 
and is no more likely to be carried out or believed than if the 
person had actually thought of it himself, but then again it 
might seem like a good idea. . . 
Physical Form Powers: 
Invisibility, PeIm 153 Points per minute - 
Hesst must 
remain still to remain invisible. 
Pillar oJInvulnerabiiity, MuCoKe25,4 Points per Raund 
- 
Hesst draws himself into a crooked pillar and remains 
perfectlystill. Hecannot move, but canspeak. Whilein this 
state, he is invulnerable to physical attacks, whether magi- 
cal or natural in origin. 
Spirit Form 
In spirit form Hesst can travel freely, and often spies on 
Physical Form 
Hesst has a hunchback, limbs of uneven length, a left 
eye larger than the right, coarse blackhair, horribly crooked 
teeth, and the left foot of a goat. Though Hesst usually deals 
with humans, Tyritescus sometimes must deal with those 
who would be disturbed by Hesst’s appearance. 
Trapped in Hesst’s various malformed parts are 10 
pawns of Perdo vis. 
people. 
Tvritescusk Plots 
Tyritescus has five goals that he currently pursues in 
Barcelona: 
To promote ignorance and hatred of the Jews, who 
constitute fully one-sixth of the population. He has been 
working on this one for centuries, with great success. Tyritescus 
‘s goals are two-fold. First, by encouraging hatred he corrupts 
Christians, leading them to damnation. Second, by harassing 
the Jews he hopes to weaken them because their Kabbalistic 
magic gives them some power over demons. If he arrange to 
have Kabbalism destroyed by Christians who think it Satanic, 
he’ll win an important tactical victory and enjoy a good laugh. 
To encourage Pere the Catholic to launch a crusade 
against the heretics - 
the Cathars - 
in Languedoc. RamBn, 
the Duke of Toulouse, is Pere’s cousin, and getting Pere to break 
family and legal ties by invading would please Tyritescus as the 
Master of Betrayal. In addition, a crusade would turn the 
Church from its attempts to reason with heretics. Not only 
would the Church be corrupted by violence, but the Cathars, 
victimized by crusade, might be led toward evil to better defend 
themselves. Some Catalan nobles, influenced by Tyritescus, 
say Pere should invade Languedoc to keep another king from 
doing so and taking land from the Aragon-Catalan crown. 
To encourage greater trade and prosperity in Barcelona, 
which, under his guidance, will breed more greed, corruption, 
and decadence. 
To discourage wars against the Moors to the south. 
These wars currently focus violence outward, and internal 
violence is much more damaging to the soul. Wars against the 
Moors are also a source of Christian pride, bolstering warriors’ 
faith and making them resistant to corruption. 
With this goal, Tyritescus hrectly opposes the goals of 
Sucelcus and Iernolaca, who want Christian crusaders to take 
great tracts of land from the Moors. Tyritescus would rather 
arrange a. semi-hostile coexistence between Moors and Chris- 
tians. He could then bring about violence at a later date, by 
inducing treachery. The violence Tyritescus seeks to foster 
would be between people who have ties of trade, friendship, 
and family. Violence between unrelated people has little 
interest for him. 
To subvert the Magi of Barcelona Covenant and retrieve 
the lost section of his heart (see Chapter Five). To this end 
Tyritescus tries many subtle schemes to get Magi, any Magi, to 
cooperate with him or his devils in any way, no matter how 
small. The standing, uneasy truce between the Covenant and 
Tyritescus (according to which he does not reveal the Magi’s 
presence and they do not destroy the shard of his heart) is a 
. 


--- Page ---

V 5 i i i - d  
CHATTER FOUR: IBERIAN LANDSCAl?E c 
weakness for Tyritestus, but it can also be the first step toward 
establishing, even forcing, some kind of cooperation between 
the parties. 
HUMANS 
IN HELL’S 
SERVICE 
There are many citizens of Barcelona under Tyritescus’s 
influence. Some have broken all his required five ties, while 
others are in the process of being led to destruction. Although 
Tyritescus and Hesst are the primary demonic figures at work 
in the city, they utilize many Infernal minions, so not all 
demon-tainted citizens have direct knowledge of Tyritescus or 
Hesst. 
David the Apothecary 
David is a Jew who entered the Kabbalah but was ejected 
within the first year for frivolously using holy names and 
phrases. He is now convinced that the Kabbalists are devil 
worshipers, who kicked him out for his obvious superiority 
and their fear that he would take over. Hesst found David and 
offered him a more direct and “independent” way to power: 
alchemy and black magic. David now provides medicines to 
many doctors, and special potions and philters to those who 
can afford them. Under Hesst’s direction, David has learned 
some powerful fonnulas. Hesst occasionally provides unspeci- 
fied substances for David to put in the potions ordered by 
important people. If David should ever become a liability to 
Tyritescus, he will be exposed as a dubolist to fuel anti- 
Semitism. 
David lives in his shop, which is between the Call de la 
Volta and the inner city. Characters can meet David first as an 
honest apothecary and alchemist, perhaps du-ected to him by 
Carles the Scribe. Only afterward might the characters learn 
David is evil. It’s more disturbing to learn that an acquaintance 
is a diabolist than to learn some faceless stranger is one. 
Demon Humors 
_ _ _ _ _ ~  
Hesst has taught David how to distill the humors of 
demons into potent magical powders. He supplies David with 
the necessary raw ingredients needed. All the powdery distil- 
lations dissolve easily in liquids and require so little for their 
effect that they essentially have no taste. Spmina stress rolls of 
6+ to 12+ are required to avoid the effects, depending on the 
amount used. The effects of demonic humors vary, as follows: 
Blood - 
Demon’s blood makes a coppery powder that 
gives one strength (+3 to Strength) and bravery (+3 to Brave 
Personality Trait, or a +3 Trait is created), but also inclines one 
to recklessness and needless violence (Violent Personality Trait 
of +3). These effects last one hour after ingesting the powder. 
Phlegm - 
Makes a gray, clumpy powder that instills 
laziness. To resist falling asleep requires a Stamina stress roll 
of 6+, rolled every hour over eight hours (after which the 


--- Page ---

humor is passed). If the roll fails the victim falls asleep for about 
eight hours. If the roll Botches, the victim passes out for about 
24 hours. All physical actions, and those that require concen- 
tration, that are performed while Stamina rolls are made to stay 
awake suffer a -3 modifier. This penalty applies to Fatigue rolls 
as well, but not to Stamina rolls to remain awake (they are based 
on a full Stamina score). 
Yellow Bile - 
Makes one angry and violent. Depending 
on the person and situation, the anger might be expressed as 
argumentativeness, a brawl, or a fight to the death. The victim 
essentially has the Hatred Passion, rated three. Pick a particular 
object of hatred that’s appropriate to the situation. Hatred 
passes as soon as the victim loses a Confidence Point through 
the activation of the Passion, or eight hours pass, whichever 
comes first. 
Black Bile -Makes one too sad and irritable to partake of 
human companionship. Lasts for a day or until someone 
successfully cheers the person up. The character essentially has 
the Morose Personality Trait, rated +3. 
Father Cucufas 
Three years ago Tyritescus appeared to Father Cucufas, a 
proud, young priest who had lost his faith. Tyritescus appeared 
in a pleasing shape, like that of an angel. Tyritescus told Father 
Cucufas he was needed for special and secret missions against 
the “small-minded, sensual, greedy folk of the Church, including 
some of your superiors. ” Today, Tyritescus occasionally comes 
to Father Cucufas with more instructions. Cucufas regards 
these visitations as proof of his special holiness. 
Father Cucufas is the city’s most outspoken clergyman, 
calling for a crusade against the Albigenses. ‘‘Ij they are on our 
lands, then cleansing them is our responsibility. Rei En Pere does 
not deserve to be culled ‘the Cutholic’ifhe will not take up this holy 
mission. ” 
Tyntescus takes perverse pleasure in corrupting the name- 
sake of the Christian he unwisely martyred back in Roman 
times. Characters can first meet Father Cucufas as the epitome 
of the intolerant and troublesome priest. Learning that he is a 
diabolist proves to characters that they can never be sure who 
serves the Devil. 
Spain’s Crusaders 
Unknown to the numerous lay members, and even to most 
knights, the leaders of the Barcelona’s resident crusaders, 
particularly the local Knights of Santiago, are hbolists. Around 
this core of diabolic leaders (called the Knights of the Black 
Rose, see below) is a large ring of heretical knights who serve 
their lords. At the behest of their leaders, these hereticalknights 
(called Knights of the Inner Circle) have trampled the crucifur 
and cursed the name of God in a secret initiation ritual. They 
know they are not true Catholics, but do not reahze their 
leaders worship the Devil. The diabolic leaders have chosen 
their recruits carefully; most of them have joined for power and 
glory, not for humble service to a greater cause. Outside the 
heretical circle of knights are the majority of the crusader 
knights, who are Christian. However, under Infernal influence 
and the leaders’ charms, even these crusaders are being readied 
for initiationinto the heretical circle, while current heretics are 
being readied for initiation into diabolism proper. 
The demon Iernolaca is in charge of Barcelona’s crusaders. 
It was her idea to subvert the order’s leaders. Iernolaca has 
made a deal with Tyntescus, giving the crusaders pemission to 
work in Barcelona under Iernolaca’s guidance. According to 
their agreement, the demons are supposed to coordinate their 
plans and share their knowledge. In reality both are jealous of 
their private projects and do not work well with each other. 
Iernolaca doesn’t know about the Magi living in Barcelona. 
But, even if she did, Tyritescus has told her never to disturb 
Magi, as he reserves full rights to that responsibility. Whether 
Iernolaca heeds Tyritescus’s warning, assuming she learns 
about the city’s Magi, is another question. Actually, Tyritescus 
doesn’t want other demons tampering with Barcelona’s Magi 
for he fears them endangering his heart (see Chapter Five for 
more details on this situation). 
Lay Members 
These are members of the Spanish crusader orders who are 
neither knights nor clergy, mostly menial servants and occa- 
sional scribes. Others are members in name only, who donate 
money and land to the orders. Lay members of Santiago can 
often be found running errands for knights, pushing their way 


--- Page ---

through crowds, demanding to be served before others, insult- 
ing “inferiors,” and generally taking advantage of their connec- 
tion to the knights. Some live in the knights’ fortress, others in 
their own homes. 
One lay member of Santiago, Na Joana Trenat, is a noble 
widow with a mansion on a hll north of Barcelona. She is also 
a member of Tyritescus’s Infernal coven. In an arrangement 
between Tyritescus and Iernolaca, both Tyritescus’s coven and 
Iernolaca’s diabolic knights convene at Trenat’s mansion. The 
coven and knights never meet at the same time, and Joana is the 
ody coven member who knows about the crusaders’ diabolic 
connections. Joana is an honorary member of the Knights of 
the Black Rose (see below). In a decisive dispute her loyalty 
could switch to the knights. (Tyntescus, the devil of betrayal, 
can never instill loyalty in his followers.) 
Priests 
Four Barcelonan priests are members of Santiago’s dia- 
bolic order. They workwithin the Church to grant land, power, 
and honors to the order. 
Chadains 
Chaplains of the military orders are priests who are capable 
of accompanying knights into battle. They have some martial 
training and weaponry, but their main role is to tend the injured 
and to boost morale. There are two chaplains in Barcelona 
belonging to the diabolical fringe of Santiago. One is a heretic 
and the other, Sebasti, is a diabolist, a Knight of the Black Rose. 
Knights of the Inner Circle, the Heretics 
Those knights of Santiago who are identified as particu- 
larly proud are secretly taken aside and told they are better than 
the rest, that they are invited to join the true rulers of the order, 
the Inner Circle. Thosevery few who do not jump at the chance 
are quietly assassinated before they spread word of this Inner 
Circle. Nevertheless, many non-member knights have heard 
rumors of some secret inner group. Since they want desperately 
to be members of the group, they never reveal it to outsiders or 
speak poorly of it. 
Those knights who want to be in the Inner Circle are 
initiated in a dark rite, during which they swear secrecy and 
undying allegiance to the order; forswear all ties to family, 
Church, and king; trample a crucifii; and curse the name of 
God. They are then taught secret philosophies of personal 
aggrandizement and power. 
Knights of the Black Rose, the Diabolic Knights 
Unknown to the Knights of the Inner Circle, their true 
leaders are in yet a smaller secret group, the Knights of the Black 
Rose. There are four Knights of the Black Rose in Barcelona: Na 
Joana Trenat, the lay follower; Sebasti, the chaplain; Antonio da 
Pisa, the captain of the Barcelonan Knights of Santiago; and 
Berenguer Xerica, his second in command. The four meet on 
nights of the full moon at Na Joana’s mansion, for worship and 
planning. 
c 
-- 
. 
-. 
THE CHURCH IN 
BARCELONA 
The Church influences all aspects of Iberian life. In war, 
the Church drects armies against infidels and heretics. In 
trade, the Church bans dealings with Moslems (albeit to little 
effect). The Church also owns vast tracts of land, much of 
which it rents out. In mental pursuits, the Church is the center 
of learning and art. The Church has its own diplomats, courts 
and laws. For the common Spanish person, the Church is the 
physical symbol of all beauty, hope, and aspiration beyond the 
merely mortal. In Barcelona, the Church is one of the many 
players on the political field, using its pervasive influence 
against nobles’ force of arms and merchants’ silver. The 
cathedral is the center of Christendom in the area. 
Bishop Berenguer de Palau 
The Bishop oversees the religious life of Barcelona and 
nearby towns. His work is overseen in turn by the Archbishop 
of Tarragona. Berenguer’s main concern is supporting the 
reconquest, which he does by telling nobles it is their holy duty 
to fight battles, and by telling merchants it is their holy duty to 
supply warriors at low prices. 
Religiously, his views are orthodox and typical, though he 
believes especially strongly that ideal government is at one with 
the will of the Church. Berenguer’s main opposition is to the 


--- Page ---

t 
Pope, whom he does not want to declare a crusade against the 
heretics in Languedoc, at least not yet. Berenguer knows King 
Pere B doomed to die there, fighting against crusaders, having 
read the Prophecies of Marc (see below). Berenguer wants to 
delay crusade until the King has captured more lands to the 
south and until Pere has a son old enough to rule in his stead. 
The Bishop’s greatest weakness is his blindness to others’ 
faults if they strongly favor reconquest. However, he also has 
an inclination toward young girls, particularly those of peas- 
ants, whom he finds eafthy and exotic. If caught in a rendez- 
vous, his actions can be used to blackmail him. 
The Bishop wears a large golden crucifix with rubies on the 
three arms of the cross. In a hollow space within the central post 
is a fragment of the True Cross, worth three True Faith Points. 
Berenguer’s Piety Ability score is four (Piety is a trait introduced 
in the Ars Magica supplement Pax Dei). 
Other Clergy 
Characters can meet Barcelona’s priests while performing 
almost any function in the city. Priests may be on the street or 
outside the walls, traveling to or from their parishes. They may 
also be met by characters attending Mass, both in and outside 
the city. They may also be met while characters search for 
information. Priests know much because they meet many 
people and have the education and intelligence to notice things 
that escape others. Most priests are happy to talk to intelligent, 
learned people, since so many in their congregations are 
illiterate and intellectually untrained. 
Father Cucufas is a proud man who rarely interests 
himself in the opinions of others. See more about him under 
Corruption and Humans in Hell’s Service, above. His Piety 
Ability score is one. 
Father Titus is an old man, the priest to whom Rei En Pere 
has turned for personal advice for over thirty years. Those who 
try to manipulate the King through this unassuming priest find 
that his respect and allegiance cannot be bought with silver, 
flattery, or pretended beliefs. Titus’s only interest is to be agood 
priest to the King and others, and there is no way to tempt him 
from that ideal. However, Titus might be used against the King 
by those who wield magic and can control the priest’s mind. 
Titus’s Piety Ability score is six. 
Father Josep is a middle-aged man who seems a very 
typical priest. His functions as a priest, especially performing 
the Sacraments, are all he looks for in life. Though he seems 
quite mild-mannered, he is unshakeable in opposition to all 
deviation from the orthodox teachings and laws of the Church. 
He is opposed to Magi, but being so caught up in his Church 
duties is somewhat distant from the world, and might not 
recognize the heretic he is so opposed to. Josep has three True 
Faith points and four Piety Ability score points. 
. 


--- Page ---

Bishops of the 13th Century 
The following are the Barcelonan bishops of the 13th 
century. All except Arnau de Gurb are Catalan. Since 
clergymen are usually old by the time they are appointed as 
bishops, many of them do not last long in office. 
Ramon de Castellvell 
1189-1 199 
Berenguer de Palau I 
1200-1206 
Pere de Cirac 
1208-1 21 1 
Berenguer de Palau I1 
12 1 2-1 241 
Pere de Centelles 
1243-1 252 
Guerau de Gaulba 
1284-1285 
Bernat Pelegri 
1288-1300 
Arnau de Gurb 
1252-1 284 
 
I 
Y-d 
CHAPTER FOUR: IBERIAN 
LANDSCAPE 
Father Pol was the youngest son of a noble. He decided 
that only in the priesthood could he have any degree of power. 
Now, at age twenty-five, with an education and the authority of 
the Church behind him, Pol enjoys hmself. He involves 
himself in politics whenever possible, preaching and enforcing 
strict obedience when it suits him. One day he hopes to serve 
as Papal envoy. Power over others, not wealth or sensual 
pleasure, is what Pol seeks. His Piety Ability score is two. 
Father To& 
is a large, middle-aged man who has 
gradually grown more and more lax. His cheerful and accept- 
ing nature keeps him from making serious enemies, but he is 
not energetic in fulfilling his duties and he fails to inspire his 
congregation. When he can manage it, he travels to various 
monasteries to- “maintain working relations.” While there, he 
and the monks test the wines that the monasteries make. It is 
on such visits that Tom& is his most vulnerable to Infernal 
corruption. His Piety Ability score is two. 
Brother Timoteu has successfully shed most trappings of 
the world since coming to the Cistercian monastery where he 
now lives. He involves himself in copying ancient Latin works 
to preserve them and the language. What he does not realize 
is that some of the books he translates have Infernal allusions 
and references which plant evil suggestions in his mind. If he 
does not soon realize his danger, Timoteu may fall to the 
Shadow‘s lure. Timoteu’s Piety Ability score is four. 
The Bishop’s Palace 
A 
Just southwest of Barcelona’s cathedral is the second 
largest residence of the city, the Bishop’s palace. The ground 
floor is occupied by busy scribes and messengers who handle 
the daily work of the Bishop. The Bishop meets most callers 
here. The upper floor is reserved for the Bishop and his 
specially invited guests. The ground floor is stylish, clean, 
open, and beautiful. The upper floor, which few besides chosen 
servants have seen, is incredibly lavish (and contains some 
children’s dirty toys). The basement is filled with stores, 
including wine, food, and gold. The lower floor and grounds 
are heavily guarded by those hand-picked by the Bishop. Non- 
Christians are not allowed into the palace. The Dominion 
within the palace is six. 
The Bishop’s Guards 
The Bishop regularly travels with at least two guards. 
Guards are well-dressed so they seem symbols of status rather 
than the well-trained warriors they are. 
All the Bishop’s guards have at least one relic of some kind 
worn somewhere on their bodies, but four out of five guards 
have fake relics. True relics are worth one True Faith Point. 
Though the Bishop’s guards cannot usually be bought, 
some have heard of the Inner Circle of the local Knights of 
Santiago. If a conniving character can pose as an Inner Knight, 
offering membership into the secret order, the Bishop’s guards 
might comply with the character’s needs. 
The’ Bishop’s Books 
Bishop Berenguer has a collection of scrolls and books, 
passed down from bishop to bishop over the centuries. They 
record all the information that each bishop thought the next 
should know. While more than four-fifths of the writing is 
about priests, diabolists, dukes, and merchants who have long 
since died, much of the remaining information is very impor- 
tant indeed. The Magi of Barcelona know of the books and of 
some of their contents. Recently recorded information is not 
knownastheMagihavenothadtheopportunitytoexaminethe 
books for many years. Farusca, head of the Barcelona Cov- 
enant, would like to have the information contained in these 
books. 
The Bishop keeps the books in a long chest, hidden in a 
secret compartment in the wall of his private study. The toe 
bone of a saint is imbeddedin the woodwork, along with several 
fakerelics, giving the chest immunity to magical detection, and 
+30 Magic Resistance against all other magicks. The chest’s 
Divine protection even makes picking its lock moredifficult 
(Dexterity + Pick Locks roll of 15+). The Bishop carries the 
chest’s key with him, and the Archbishop of Tarragona has the 
only other copy. It is the Bishop’s duty to swallow or destroy 
his key before he dies. The Archbishop makes a copy of the key 
and presents it to the next bishop. (Thus, if Berenguer were to 
meet with an unfortunate accident, and his body was exhumed 
after Christian burial, grave robbersmight be able to recover the 
Indeed, Farusca of Barcelona Covenant might try to gain 
access to the records upon Berenguer’s death. With the death 
of the Bishop, his palace is not occupied. Servants and guards 
still inhabit the place, and a presumptuous priest might try to 
take over the Bishop’s quarters, but private rooms are less likely 
to be used. Furthermore, priests of Barcelona might not know 
of the books until the Archbishop arrives to install a new 
key.) 


--- Page ---

J 
A 
1 
bishop, passing on a copy of the chest’s key. A combination of 
few people in the palace and the chance to study the books 
before they’re missed may be too tempting for Magi, Farusca 
included, to pass up. 
Of the Bishop’s records, one scroll contains a list of people 
suspected of practicing magic of some kind or another, each 
with a note describing suspected crimes. The list was started 
long ago, and the first few hundred names are all crossed out, 
most with the note “mortuus” (“dead) next to them. At the end 
of the list, however, are some twenty names of living people. 
Among them are David the Apothecary, “aJew whosepotions are 
not always what he claims they are.” Also here is Carles of the 
Eye, who “has an unhealthy interest in books best left in the hands 
ofthe wise. ” The other names are mostly mountebanks who sell 
fake charms, old women who style themselves witches, sellers 
of strange books andpoultices,andonelunaticwhoseramblings 
have a disturbingly demonic tone. These names could lead to 
interesting stories of your invention, or they could prove dead 
ends, since the truly powerful are too cautious to be found on 
this list. It would be truly alarming if characters, who manage 
to get their hands on the records, find their own names written 
therein. 
A bronze-bound and clasped book contains notes on 
political rivals and allies, including the King; politically active 
nobles; Antonio da Pisa, the head of the Barcelonan Knights of 
Santiago; and anyone else who is important enough to warrant 
a bishop’s attention. Again, several early entries describe 
people now dead or moved away, but most are current as this 
particular volume was begun by Bishop Berenguer’s immediate 
predecessor. Other scrolls and small books are devoted to the 
Cistercians, the Dominicans, the Franciscans, the Templars, 
the Hospitallers, the Knights of Santiago (no reference is made 
to their diabolic activities), the Knights of the Sacred Sepulcher, 
various noble families, the Jews, and the Moors. Studying these 
records provides eight Experience Points in Barcelona Lore 
(Area Lore), enabling a maximum Ability score of seven. 
The book about the Jews in Barcelona tells of their growing 
importance in the city. There is little information and lots of 
speculation, and each bishop’s entries are obviously strongly 
colored by varying degrees of prejudice. However, if readers are 
already prejudiced against the Jews, this book only adds 
valimty to already skewed perspectives. 
Another set of books records the actions of Tyritescus. Its 
first entries were written by Barcelona’s first bishop. The 
Church, over the centuries, has developed an accurate picture 
of who they are up against and Bishop Berenguer knows that 
Tyritescus has started covens from time to time. The last 
known coven was destroyed in 1014. Berenguer does not, 
however, know anything about the current coven. These old 
books describe Tyritescus and Hesst, as well as recordmg 
scattered notes about servitors, peons, and the blackmagic that 
Hesst regularly teaches to diabolists. Characters who read this 
book gain two Experience Points in Occult Lore, allowing up 
to a maximum Ability score of seven. Readers also find 
important details about Tyritescus, such as his and his follow- 
ers’ ability to loosen and sunder bonds, the tell-tale horns on his 
. 


--- Page ---

head, the unmistakable description of Hesst, a brief description 
of his enemy Buniserga, his use of demonic humors, and the 
useful fact that Tyritescus has never been able to inspire loyalty 
in any of his demonic or human followers, except for Hesst. 
Characters with this knowledge are more prepared to see 
through and overcome Tyritescus’s schemes. 
Another scroll records information about the Order of 
Hemes, including all the times when Magi were known to be 
in Barcelona. The bishops have generally believed that Magi 
have moved through the city but have never resided here. The 
scroll records approximately one incident per twenty years. A 
major part of the scroll is a summary of what an 1 lth century 
bishop learned during repeated talks with a Magus of House 
Jerbiton. The two met regularly to exchange information and 
to encourage cooperation and mutual understanding, but the 
bishop’s successor would not deal with Magi. No Magus has 
since been so daring as to establish a dialogue with a bishop. 
The general consensus of the bishops is that Magi should stay 
out of Barcelona. 
The Prophecies of Murc 
Also among the Bishop’s secret records is an account of 
three prophecies told to a previous bishop, in 1 171. .The bishop 
wrote that a twelve year old boy named Marc came to him, 
saying the Virgin Mary had appeared to him and revealed three 
important prophecies. These prophecies, the Virgin had said, 
were for the bishop’s ears only; and Marc claimed to have told 
no one else. The prophecies are: 
“Withinfifty years, the King will act against the wishes ofthe 
Pope and die in battle in Lunguedoc, touched by the Infernal. ” 
“Within two hundred years, a great pestilence with descend 
upon Barcelona and choke the streets with the dead and dying.” 
“The Moors will lose most of their lands to the Christian 
sword, but the last shall not be expelledfrom the peninsulafor over 
three hundred years. ’’ 
The firstprophecyrefers to ReiEnPere’sdeathin 1213, the 
second to the Black Plague in the 13th century, and the third to 
the culmination of the reconquest in 1492. No bishop tries to 
prevent events apparently related to these prophecies because 
they were brought to human ears by the Queen of Heaven (or 
that’s how the legend goes; the prophecies could just as easily 
have come from an Infernal source). 
Bishop Berenguer does, however, have plans to make use 
of the prophecies. He is currently pushing Rei En Pere to battle 
the Moors. The Bishop rationalizes that since the King is 
destined to die in Languedoc, he cannot be slain if on the 
battlefields of the south. If Pere ever decides to take an army 
north, Bishop Berenguer will arrange for Church supporters to 
remain behind, and for those nobles who are not staunch 
Church allies to accompany the doomed mission. 
Although Barcelona’s bishops do not usually interfere with 
the Prophecies of Marc, characters might. There’s no telling 
what events might transpire with character interference in the 
Divine plan. The Church’s agents might strive to stop the 
characters, and the Divine itself might deal with characters by 
means of some miracle! However, in gratitude for salvation at 
the characters’ hands, King Pere might, for example, recognize 
the Order of Hemes in his kingdom and legalize its activities. 
JEWS IN BARCELONA 
Jews compose one-sixth of Barcelona’s population. A 
minority in a” Christian city, they suffer legal discrimination, 
but their skill at economics, law, and medicine have made them 
so valuable that they have won more rights here than Jews in 
most other cities. 
The Jews live in two calls, or walled neighborhoods. The 
Call de la Volta is the larger, and the Call de ”Angela is the 
smaller. Though the Jews live in separate calls, they refer to 
themselves as a single aljama, or Jewish community. The many 
gates tp the calls are generally open to allow free passage ofJews. 
Non-Jews are not allowed within a call. Jews may live outside 
the calls, and many wealthy Jews do, but most prefer the 
protection that the calls offer. On certain days, such as Good 
Friday, Christians sometimes mob Jews in a display of “reli- 
giously justified violence. On these days the calls shut their 
gates for the inhabitants’ protection. Jews who live outside the 
calls either shut themselves up in their own houses, or visit 
friends in the calls for the day. 
The aljama depends on money brought into it by Jewish 
professionals, such as moneylenders, but otherwise Jews have 
little contact with Christians and maintain an independent 
community. Jews go to otherJews for all their needs, except for 
food and raw materials, which only Christians have. Jews buy 
their animals live, not just their meat, so they can slay the 
animals without pain and prepare the meat according to kosher 
laws. Of course, those who do not understand Jewish custom 
suspect much darker deeds involving the live animals. 
Among Jews, the poor are as common as among Chris- 
tians, but only educated, wealthy Jews have business outside 
the calls. Christians therefore see almost no Jews that are not 
doctors, lawyers, or moneylenders. Based on this impression, 
many Christians believe allJews are wealthy. Most Barcelonans 
would be shocked to see the. small houses of poor Jews, 
crowded in their calls. 
Barcelonan Christians hold an ambivalent attitude toward 
Jews. On one hand, Jews are indispensable to the running of the 
city; merchants and nobles who work with them generally like 
the individual Jews they know. On the other hand, Jews are 
portrayedas thevillainsin the stories ofJesus,Mary, andothers. 
Many Christians have a hard time imagining and understand- 
ing the two thousand miles and one thousand years that 
separate the moneylender down the street and a Pharisee. 
Christians also regard the idea that Jesus was a Jew as madness. 
In addition, it irks many Christians, especially the uneducated, 
the lazy, and the poor, that this “inferior” race can produce so 
many wealthy, talented professionals. In the presence of so 
many Jews, some Barcelonans have become more tolerant than 
Christians in other lands; others have become more hateful. 
Indeed, in terms of stories, the duality of Christian charity and 
persecution can be expressed by using the unfortunate Jew. 


--- Page ---

A 
. .  
In the 13th century, the menorah, not the Star of David, is 
the symbol of Judaism. The six-pointed star, like the five- 
pointed Star of Solomon, is a magical symbol, especially among 
the Moors. 
Restrictions on Tews 
Jews may not enter the homes of Christians. Jews may not 
have Christian servants or slaves. They are therefore kept from 
being landlords of peasants and when they own agricultural 
land, they must rent it out to Christians to manage and use. 
Most of the primitive guilds of the city do not admit Jews. Jews 
are excluded from all Christian organizations and orders. The 
Ustages, which protect the rights of Catalan citizens from 
arbitrary royal rule, officially support laws that discriminate 
against Jews. Only by assuming the role of a Jewish character 
may a player realize the full injustice of these laws; Christian 
characters simply don’t realize what really goes on unless they 
have close Jewish friends. 
Rights of Iews 
and would say that there is no place in Europe that I would not 
go, looking out on the Ocean chills me to the bone. That expanse 
of emptiness lives in my memory and $1 am destinedfor Hell, 
as priests say, I am sure it will be a p2ace as empty as that 
Ocean. ” 
All Jews have a right to trial. The synagogue has the power 
of asylum, so fugitives who are accepted there may not be 
captured by the government. Jews have the right to charge 
interest on loans, a practice prohibited as usury among Chris- 
tians. Of course, Christians only allow Jewish usury because 
they already consider Jews damned to Hell - 
“Why risk our 
own souls when these pagans are already homed?” 
I 
Avira Cepheus on Finis Terre 
I 
I 
“Near the northern coast, the sea crashes mightily upon 
the rocks,foaming with a dullfirry in the awesome expanse of 
the capes. There is, at its most western edge, a rock called Finis 
Tewe, theEnd ofthe Earth. Standing on that rock and looking 
out on the vast expanse of the Ocean is a truly humbling 
experience. Though I have traveled to many lands in my time, 
AlthoughJewsseemsunjustly treated, andare, they arenot 
without their own defenses. The Kabbalah, secret Jewish 
magic, is used to protect Jews from extreme cases of abuse. 
Indeed, on more than one occasion a Christian, outspoken 
against the Jews, has suddenly changed his tune for no apparent 
reason. And some claim to have seen a large, powerful man in 
the vicinity of the Call de la Volta. The odd burglar is found 
outside the call’s wall, strangled to death by massive hands. 
Some even whisper that this figure is not human! 
Galrcra 
~~ 
~~ 
The region of Galicia runs along the northern coast of 
Iberia and around the northwestern comer. It is the coolest 
region of Iberia and is centered around the Cantabrian moun- 
tains. While no great rivers make valleys in this land, it has an 
abundance of water. The sky is sometimes blue and serene and 
at other times melancholy, bearing clouds from the sea. The 
mountains are adorned with pine trees and oaks and filled with 
lakes, streams, and cascades rushing on their short course to the 
ocean. Above the tree line, tiny lichen, soft and compact as 
lambs fleece, cling to the craggy rocks. The vegas are covered 
in all seasons with green grasses, herbs, and flowers. The 
abundance of water continues here; rolling brooks leap among 
the green fields and boulders. Huge ferns grow along banks of . 
the rivers, flourishing in the rivers’ crystalline spray. Magnifi- 
cent chestnut trees fill theatmospherewith their aroma, mwng 
with the perfume of other sweet-scented herbs and trees. 
Ancient stone fountains, carpeted with green moss, give up 
water, thread after thread, like tears on the cheek of a crying 
mother. The water falls to the sea in tempestuous capes that 
terrify and amaze with their gigantic fury. 
Galicia is indicated on the Iberia map. 
. 
Culture 
I 
The people of Galicia are an independent and solitary 
breed. Their ancestors were of Celtic stock and they share some 
of that race’s superstitious predilection. Every grain bin is 
carved on its end with the cross, to invoke the protection of God 
against thieving mice (although the cross also has religious 
applications much older than Christianity). It’s rumored that 


--- Page ---

Galicia is one of the most prominent places in Iberia to fiid 
ancient magical traditions, like shamanism. Though a pleasant 
people, Galicians live apart from one another. Each valley has 
its small stone house with a plume of blue smoke rising from 
its chimney. House shamanism is common. 
When the Moslems first attempted invasion in Galicia, 
they found the people stubborn and dangerously familiar with 
their land. The mountaineers of Galicia are among the few 
Christians in Iberia to never have known Moslem rule. As a 
result, their interests lie in their fields and farms, not in the great 
cities of the peninsula. 
SANTIAGO DE 
COMPESTELA 
For the layout of the city, see the Santiago de Compestela 
map. 
People come to Santiago along the pilgnm road, to visit the 
supposed burial site of Saint James. The last leagues of the road 
wind through the rough green lulls of Galicia, but pilgrims are 
used to the hardships of the road. At least there are convents 
and villages where travelers can rest along the way. As the road 
rises over the final hill, the first of a pilgrim party to spy their 
destination traditionally cries out, “MonJoie!” That person is 
then treated as the “king” of the pilgnm party and is often 
carried into the city on the shoulders of his fellows. 
The city is populated with buildings of golden granite, the 
most magnificent of these being the cathedral. After frequent 
rains the cathedral gleams wetly as water pours out of the 
mouths of its gargoyles. (One of these gargoyles is the residence 
of a church faerie. Her residence has apparently charged the 
gargoyle with magic, investing water that passes through its 
mouth with Aquam vis.) 
Pilgrims enter the city‘s cathedral from the west, through 
the Portico de G16ria. During the summer months pilgrims 
often fill’ the plaza facing the cathedral. The Portico ’is carved 
with numerous religious figures, their features painted and 
their arrangement dictated by allegory. Over the main door, 
Christ presides, flanked by his apostles, and surrounded by the 
24 Elders of the Apocalypse, who play a variety of musical 
instruments. Saint James is seated beneath Christ, just above 
eye level of approaching pilgrims. (Pilgrims who have made 
their journey with some sin claim to have had their eyes met by 
the statue’s, inspiring them to confess their sins.) The Tree of 
Jesse is just below the Saint. Pilgrims entering the cathedral 
give thanks by pressing a hand to the Tree’s carved roots. It is 
considered very good luck to have a piece of root break away 
in hand, though entrants making a concerted effort to remove 
a piece of stone are frowned upon. 
Inside the cathedral, pilgrims complete their journey by 
walkmg behind the altar, there embracing a statue of Santiago 
and kissing the hem of the statue’s robe. A priest then gives 
pilgrims a Latin document, known as the Compestela, to certify 
that they have completed their pilgrimage. 
. 
.
.
 
. : -  . 
. .:. 
- .  
. 
. .  . 
. 
. . I * .  :! 
4. Plaza de la :. .’ 
’ QuintF.a . - * * 
35. Plaza de Ias *‘ 
Platerias * . . e .  
$6. Plazadela:. 
eachefla :.., . 
. . 
.: 
. ’:. 
* 
. 
. 
. . ...- . ‘. . 
. . :... 
. .. 
. .  
. 
... . - .  . 
. 
.. 
. .  
. . .. 
. ‘. .. . . ’. 
.
.
 
- . .  
.: :’ . 
. 
.. 
.*.. - . .  . 
. :  .. 
.. 
..*’ 
. *-. 
8 
* 
* 
- ’  . .  
Every century, demons Gcated around Santiago hold a 
scavenger hunt. One of the sought-after items is a pilgrim’s 
newly acquired Compestela. However, according to the rules, 
possession of it must be gained through an agent just turned to 
evil; part of the agent’s initiation into diabolism involves the 
document’s acquisition. If the soul of the pilgnm can also be 
won, the Compestela is worth extra points. 
The cathedral houses many of the pilgnms who journey to 
it. The press of human bodies can be quite overwhelming. 
Monasteries near the cathedral serve to lessen the burden of 
hospitality, providing free room and board to those who can 
prove they areonpilgnmage. During the 13th centuryover half 
a million pilgrims visit Santiago every year. 
The city of Santiago is arrayed around its cathedral. 
Immediately to the north is the palace of the Archbishop. It was 
built by Archbishop Gelmirez. Gelmirez was also responsible 
for raising Santiago to an archbishropic. During the construc- 
tion of the cathedral Gelmirez discovered a deed dating from 
the 9th century, which promised the shrine of Saint James an 
annual tribute of one bushel of corn for every acre recaptured 
from the Moors. This deed is still enforced and is a major source 
of income for the shrine and the city. Whether this deed is 
legitimate, or was forged to raise money for the city, has yet to 
be proven, and those who have suggested forgery have quietly 
disappeared (those corrupt among the Knights of Santiago use 
the deeds profits to fund their activities). 
-
-
s
 


--- Page ---

Furthermore, as previously suggested, Santiago might not 
be the genuine place of Saint James’s burial. The legend may 
have been fabricated to inspire Christian devotion and to rally 
support against the Moors. Certainly the profits of pilgnmage 
alone may have motivated the lie about James’s resting place. 
Corrupted members of the Knights of Santiago take definite 
steps against anyone suggesting the city‘s status is false. 
The Local Knights 
Santiago is the home base of the Knights of Santiago, who 
began their order as protectors of pilgrims. The knights still 
protect those on the pilgrim trail to the city, but are now 
entrenched in the Reconquista as well.. There are several 
members of the order in Santiago that belong to the Inner 
Circle, and some that belong to the Knights of the Black Rose. 
However, with the rise of Barcelona’s prominence, most activ- 
ity among the diabolists occurs in that city. And yet, Santiago 
is still considered, with some despicable fondness, as the home 
of the diabolists. It is here that members of the Black Rose meet 
for peninsula-wide gatherings, under the pretense of Reconquista 
talks. 
The central plateau of Iberia is like a castle rising from the 
sea. The passes into the highlands are few and well-guarded. 
The region occupies the space from the Cantabrian mountains 
Avira CeDheus on Old Castile 
“Wen you come to the borders of Castile, you are unable 
to mistake them. Hulking towers and massive castles line the 
borders ofthis land and give it its name. f i e  people of Castile 
arefierce and proud; their land is, however, less civilized than 
that ofAragon-Catalonia. Since the King of Castile is leading 
the military eflort of the Reconquista, he oflers a noble title to 
any person who can sene in the army with a shirt of armor, a 
lance, a sword, and a horse. Ifa bandit can acquire a horse and 
enough coin to purchase a sword, that bandit is well on the way 
to becoming a noble. The manners ofmany of Castile’s nobles 
reflect this base heritage. Indeed, I prefer the hospitality of 
Castile’s monasteries Over that of its nobility. Even the 
convents ofthe crusaders offer more intelligent conversation to 
a road-weam traveler.” 
~ 
~~ 
to the Sierra Morena, making up the largest part of the Iberian 
Tribunal. Near the center of the region, the Sierra de Guadanna 
splits the plateau into roughly two sections. North and west of 
the Sierra de Guadarma is the Kingdom of Le6n. The land of 
Le6n rises toward the Cantabrian mountains and the area of 
Galicia. It is marked by hills that grow rougher and more fertile 
as one proceeds northwest. The Duero River runs through the 
Kingdom of Le6n and provides both a nourishing source of 
water and a natural border. Away from the cities, people tend 


--- Page ---

to live on isolated farms that are ranged around a central village. 
Distance from the Moslem frontier has lessened the need for the 
security of close neighbors. 
East of Leon is the Kingdom of Castile. Once a province 
of Leon, it has risen to be the dominant force for Christendom 
on the peninsula. While the Kingdom of Aragon-Catalonia is 
about equal in power, its ambitions lie to the Mediterranean. 
The region from the Cantabrians to the Sierra de Guadarama is 
called Old Castile and is the region of Castile’s birth. Old 
Castile, like Leon, straddles the Duero River and is generally 
hilly. Old Castile is less lush than Leon, having fewer forests 
and more grasslands. New Castile, that area of Castile between 
the Sierra de Guadarama and the Moslem border, is given over 
to vast stretches of grassland. The Tagus River winds through 
the vast plains but does little to break the starkness of the 
landscape. The people of New Castile live mostly in villages 
and towns that are separated from each other by great distances. 
Small clusters of houses are kept apart by immense, naked 
wilderness. The simple people zealously avoid the desolate 
loneliness of the open plains, but mystics and holy menseek out 
the solitude of the empty meseta. 
The area of the high plateau is depicted on the Iberia map. 
Culture 
Throughout the history of the region, the nobility of Leon, 
and particularly Castile, have been powerful and independent. 
When the kings of Leon and Castile called the Reconquista, the 
independent nobility caused them a number of problems. The 
nobles often warred amongst themselves and refused to send 
troops to the kings. In an effort to expand their armies and 
centralize their power, the kings instituted a new class of 
nobility, the caballeros. These minor nobility arose from the 
plebeian ranks, consisting of those who could equip them- 
selves for war as cavalrymen. Though these new nobles often 
won exemption from taxes, weakening the king’s power, they 
also provided a counterpoint to the hereditary nobility. Fur- 
thermore, the large number of armed warriors were welcomed 
by the kings, who needed their force for continued wars against 
the Moslems. 
While the numbers of nobility grew, the importance of free 
men, or the middle class, grew in the high plateau. As the kings 
claimed more territory to the south, they needed settlers to 
populate and defend the land. In return for undertaking this 
dangerous task, the people of villages and towns on the frontier 
enjoyed certain privileges, being treated as the middle class. 
Efforts to repopulate conquered lands also aided the servile 
class. Many serfs and slaves were freed during the expansion 
of Christian lands, although emancipation was not uniform. In 
general, given these settlers’ hardiness and familiarity with 
freedom, they make ideal covenfolk. 
On the Moslem frontier and at the center of Iberia’s trade 
routes, the hgh plateau region bears a myriad of social groups. 
Foreigners from every prominent Mythic European region 
journey to the plateau. They are attracted by the crusading 
character of the land, and by the opportunity for material 
reward. Jews move into the region in greater numbers as the 
Reconquest continues; the fundamentalist Almohads strictly 
persecute the Jews and many flee to Castile where they are 
welcomedas administrators andscholars. The Reconquest also 
causes an influx of Mudejares, or “tamed Moslems, fleeing 
from the fundamentalists. These Moslems are initially allowed 
to publicly practice their religion but as the Reconquest contin- 
ues strictures against them grow more severe. The final social 
class incorporated into the plateau society is that of the 
Moz&rabes. These are Christians by faith but those who have 
lived so long under Moslem rule that they are nearly indistin- 
guishable from Moslems. The Moz&rabes often have laws 
separate from other Christians. 
This mix of cultures makes for a relatively tolerant envi- 
ronment on the high plateau. In fact, there much to be said 
for establishing of a Covenant on the plateau. However, 
mundane relations would be fairly constant, so Jerbiton Magi 
would thrive best. Of course, settling in the high plateau also 
assumes acquisition of a suitable location, isolation being 
difficult to find. 
Because of the plateau’s comparative peace (as the Modem 
frontier is pushed back) and increased economic wealth, the 
region’s quality of life has increased dramatically. By the 13th 
century mundanes’ homes now have hearths, chimneys, and 
sometimes glass in their windows. Furniture heavy and sober 
but becoming more ornate. An artisan or laborer usually has a . 
bed, a table, afew chairsanda chest. And yet, clothingisusually 
worn until worn out, without being cleaned or changed. The 
use of water for anything but drinhng is unusual. Some larger 
cities still operate public baths; they have some vogue among 
the citizenry. 
Men on the plateau tend to live in the marketplaces and 
fields, spending a good deal of their time out of doors. Women, 
on the other hand, tend to withdraw from public life, spendmg 
their time in the home. Crimes against women are prosecuted 
severely . Even the relatively minor offense of pulling a 
woman’s hair results in harsh penalties. However, women are 
not treated as social equals; the supposed gallantry of the 
Middle Ages does not exist here. Men wear their hair long. A 
long beard is considered a sign of dipty. Pulhg or cutting 
another man’s beard draws heavy penalties. 
Two forms of marriage are recognized among the people 
of the high plateau. The first is the bendicibn, which is 
accompanied by religious ceremony and the blessing of the 
Church. The other is the wedding & yuras, which is a simple 
contract between parties under oath. A third form of union, not 
recognized as wedlock, is that of barraganfa, or concubinage. 
Barraganfa is a permanent and faithful relationship that usually 
involves single parties. Many clergymen enter into barraganfa 
despite efforts to prevent the practice. With all of these forms 
of union it’s not surprising that divorce is condoned. 


--- Page ---

Avira Cepheus on Leon 
“The area of Ledn provides a civilized bu,er between the 
harsh plateau and the mountains of Galicia. Most ofthe travel 
through this kingdom occurs along the pilgrimage roud to 
Santiago. Because ofthut trafic, places of rest and supply are 
abundant. The Knights of Santiago do an admirable job of 
keeping the roudfree ofbandits andsafefor more subtle thieves. 
While traveling this rod be wary of anyone selling anything. 
Most of the relics are slivers of horse bone, and supplies are 
often spoiled or short-weighted. Also, $you buy anything the 
seller probably notices where you keep your money and may 
relate that information to lessfriendly compatriots. Ifrou keep 
your wits about you, or are obviously well-armed or otherwise 
dangerous, the rod presents few huzards. ” 
Government 
Typical Mythlc European feudal structure does not fully 
hold on Iberia’s central plateau. Theoretically, the thrones 
continue to be elective, but in reality are hereditary. Kings have 
expanded the governmental districts, giving them greater 
power. They also appoint corregidores, or governors, who are 
responsible for several counties and report directly to the kings. 
- Each of the governors is assisted by functionaries called merinos 
mayores, who have charge of the civil and criminal judiciary. 
To increase their power the kings have also removed nobles 
from the post of county representative, substituting officials 
called udelantudos. While nobles in position of king’s represen- 
tative had significant military authority, the udelantados have 
only civil authority and are less dangerous to the crown. 
The towns of the high plateau are organized along a 
general pattern. A local assembly and various officials are 
common. The most important of these.officials are thealcaldes, 
or judges. In many cities they are representatives of the lung 
and wield his authority. Communication with the crown is 
accomplished by messenger. Because of the resultant delay in 
communication,actualmonarchicalauthority in citiesisslight. 
The cities often act with independence, malung raids against 
Moslems and each other for their own benefit. Sometimes 
plateau cities band together to attack neighboring nobles. For 
these wars the towns form hermundudes, or brotherhoods of 
towns (and sometimes other nobles). Sometimes towns secre- 
tively change their own charters to provide themselves with 
greater privileges. The cities of Iberia often collect taxes for 
their own benefit. In addition, they impose obligations of 
personal service from their citizens. Cities also own land which 
includes the propios that are worked directly by the town or 
rented to its citizens, and the comunules that are held for the use 
by all, subject to local regulations. 
Justice is primarily the right of the kings but the alcaldes of 
the towns exercise civil and often criminal jurisdiction. Kings 
may punish local judges, even removing them from office, but 
the kings’ threat does not prevent abuses. Appeals from local 
courts go to the kings, who have first right to try cases of 
. 


--- Page ---

r - 
CHA PTER - 
XJR: IBI 
murder, assault ona woman, robbery, and other serious crimes. 
’ The kings are advised by a group of people they appoint, but the 
final decision is theirs. Tests of the hot iron, hot water, and 
battle are employed, and torture is sometimes used as a means 
of acquiring evidence. Punishments include mutilation, ston- 
ing, burning, starvation, and other atrocities. On the other 
hand, payment of a sum of money in place of punishment is 
allowed - 
with wars being pressed against the Moslems, able 
men are valuable to the plateau states. However, convicted 
criminals are not free from the private vengeance of victims’ 
families. 
TOLEDO 
Toledo is nearly located in the exact center of the Tribunal, 
and has been an important city since the time of the Visigoths. 
The city sits on a high rock surrounded on three sides by the 
Tagus River. The walls of the city surmount the rock and the 
city sprawls some distance north. The buildings of Toledo are 
constructed mostly of stone, though the use of mud bricks, or 
adobe, is also common. The streets are narrow and winding; 
strangers to the city are easily lost among twisting alleyways. At 
the beginning of the 13th century, Toledo has a population of 
approximately 50,000. .Nearly half those people live within the 
city’s walls. 
The predominant color of Toledo is brown. From the 
tawny rock that the city sits upon, to the stone of its walls, to the 
river that surrounds it, brown is seen everywhere. The city 
streets are not paved and are alternately rivers of mud and 
tempestuous halls of dust. The landscape around the city has 
been marked by her frequent wars and everything seems coated 
with a layer of dust as if from the stirrings of thousands of feet. 
It is little wonder that, during festivals, the population hangs 
expensive tapestries from their windows to brighten their drab 
city. 
The population of Toledo is quite varied. Jews, Moslems, 
and Mozdrubes make their home here and each has their own 
quarter within the walls. The Jews of Toledo are among the 
most fortunate of Iberia. Though their houses are typically 
fortified, their neighborhoods are not walled against attack. 
There has risen a legend that the Jews of Toledo called the 
Crucifixion both heedless and imprudent, but their letter to 
this effect supposedly arrived too late for consideration. The 
city’s Moslems, like its Jews, are allowed to continue practicing 
their religion during Christian rule. As the Reconquista 
progresses, however, members of both religions suffer stricter 
regulations. 
Around Toledo 
The road approachng Toledo from the east is guarded by 
the Castle of San Servando. This Visigothic structure sits 
solidly on a hdl and guards the Puente de Alcantara, the first 
bridge into the city. As you cross the Tagus River, Toledo rises 
to fill your vision. The road continues to the right, paralleling 
the city‘s massive wall, turning to the west. The city sprawls 
outside its walls and small markets abound alongside the road. 
North of the city are the less crowded residences of the nobility 
and some monasteries. As the wall continues west, you come 
to the first of the city’s gates, the Puerto Nueva. This small gate 
gives access to the city‘s Moslem quarter. The main gate of 
Toledo, the Puerto de Visagra, is a short distance further west. 
Roads from the north converge here and there is always a bustle 
of traffic near the gate. Guards protect the main gate, but are 
notoriously open to bribery. 
The third entrance to Toledo is the Puerto del Cambron, 
on the western edge of the city. The road crosses the Tagus 
River on the Puente de San Martin, a fordied bridge. The 
Puerto del Cambron enters the city near the Jewish quarter, 
which is a center of commerce and industry. Toward the center 
of the city is the Church of San Romdn, which was the center 
of the Visigothic religion. Closer to the center of Toledo, and 
hgher on the hill, is the current cathedral. It was initially a 
mosque captured with the city in 1085. The Archbishop of 
Toledo is pressing for the construction of a true cathedral. 
Toledo’s Dominion 
Daytime: 
4 
Nighttime: 
3 
Sunday: 
+2 
Holidays: 
6 
Day between Good Friday and Easter: 
2 


--- Page ---

Matlus on Moors 
“The Moors, they are an incredible people, do you not 
think? They arefierce warriors, for one thing. I bet ifthey had 
a decent leader to pull them all together, we would be speaking 
Arabic, here in Barcelona, within hyeur. As it is, the Moors are 
just being beattn back because the Christian armies gang up on 
individual Moorish armies. The losses of theMoors are not due 
to poorfighting ability. 
“What were we talking about, now? Oh yes, Moors. You 
know, they are not just great warriors. They are probably the 
most intelligent people in the world, outside the Order of 
Hemes. Maybe they are tied with theJews. You know those 
new numbers, the odes with a difjferent numeral for all the 
numbers from one to nine, plus a number to mean ‘nothing!’ 
Those numerals are Moorish. The Moors have some ofthe best 
mathematicians, philosophers, architects, and doctors in the 
world. Sometimes I think the Order of Hemes should pack 
everything up and move to Africa so we can take advantage of 
the Moslem mind. ” 
Behind the “cathedral” is the translators’ school, which was 
initially sponsored by Archbishop Raymond in 1126. The 
school is the center of intellectual life in Toledo and the 
surrounding neighborhood is populated with scholars and 
those who cater to their needs. 
Against the north wall is the Moslem quarter. The Al&ar, 
or palace, sits on the eastern wall just south of the Moslem 
quarter. Nearby is Toledo’s largest market. The Plaza de 
Zocodover is a thriving businessplace that throngs with people 
during the day. In the evening, it is quieter but still active. 
Merchants, farmers, entertainers, and thieves surround the 
money-laden crowds, malung the plaza an exciting gathering 
of people. 
South of Toledo lie the lands of the Moors. The fields south 
of the city are often scarred by the clash of armies. Only the 
most poor of the ciy try to eke out a living on these fields. The 
herding of cattle and sheep brings in most of Toledo’s wealth. 
Many raids are focused on large-scale cattle theft. The Tagus 
River stretches east and west of Toledo. The swiftly moving 
river runs along a steep gorge for most of its length and offers 
a natural barrier for Toledo’s defense. 
For the layout of the city, see map of Toledo. 
Power and Politics 
The city of Toledo is not the capital of Castile, but is nearly 
as important in the political life of the King. Toledo is the center 
of the Iberian Church and has been since the days of the 
Visigoths. Even while under Moslem domination, the Church 
was allowed to operate out of Toledo and maintained its 
influence on the affairs of the country. The Archbishop of 
Toledo wields tremendous power and is very nearly the ruler 
of Castile. The King travels to Toledo for coronation and the 
Archbishop is frequently his confessor and advisor. At the start 
of the 13th century the Archbishop of Toledo is Rodrigo 


--- Page ---

Jimenez de Rada. He is known as an accomplished soldier as members of the Shadow Flambeau are particularly popular, 
well as a powerful clergyman (and to those in diabolic circles, though the nobility do not know exactly who they’re dealing 
a theurgist who intends to subvert Castile’s King and acquire with. Diabolic members of the Order of Santiago know who the 
temporal power himself, using the King as a puppet). 
Shadow Flambeau are and have worked with them against the 
Toledo serves as the forward base for attacks on Moslems Moslems in the Past. 
to the south. The city’s strategic position and central location 
make it a natural place to muster armies. Numerous military AMalusra 
orders have castles and convents near the city. Of these the 
Order of Calatrava are the most numerous. The castle of 
Andalusia is the area south of the Sierra Morena, reaching 
Calatrava itself is just sixty miles south of Toledo. The order to the southern coast of Iberia. It is dominated by the 
holds half a dozen castles in the immediate area and has Guadalquivir River, which first attracted the Romans to the 
holdings within the city. Within 25 miles of Toledo are castles region. The Guadalquivir was navigable by Roman ships as far 
held by the Hospitallers and by the order of Santiago. These inland as the city of Cordova and remains navigable to near the 
crusading orders have a great deal of influence on the rulers of city of Seville. Beyond the fertile coastal plains, tall mountains 
Toledo. (Indeed, the Knights of Santiago are corrupt here as of the Sierra Nevada the the Sierra Morena rise past rolling hills. 
elsewhere, and the Archbishop of the city uses them as his The hills are irrigated and contain lush agricultural valleys. 
special guard.) Much of the various knights’ land has been Andalusia is a land of warm winds and singing birds. 
granted directly by the King and is free frommany taxes. They 
The climate is warm year round, being moderated by the 
are among the most wealthy land holders and demand certain Mediterranean. Despite the fertility of the region it is a dry, 
privileges to maintain their ~ ~ 1 1 t h .  
For fear of appearing parched, land in summer. Only irrigation keeps the hills green. 
opposed to Christian ideals, the council of Toledo does not The city of Cordova lies breathless under a blazing sun and in 
resist the crusaders’ demands. Thus, the Knights of Santiago Seville the population seeks cool shadows. The twin gifts of 
have even greater influence in the city. 
. water and warmth have allowed the Moslems to mold this land 
Given that crusaders need all the help they can get against into a paradise, but only the continuing efforts of humanity 
the Moslems, Magi receive warmer welcome in Toledo than keep it from becoming uninhabitable. 
they do in other Iberian cities. In fact, Magi who are secretly 
The region of Andalusia is depicted on the fieria m p .  


--- Page ---

A 
Culture 
~~~ 
The people of Andalusia have lived longest under Moslem 
rule. To the casual observer, nearly all the people of Andalusia 
appear Moslem. They affect Arabic dress and follow many 
Arabic customs. Christians and Jews do live among the 
Moslems and in general have been treated fairly. Only under 
the fanatical Almohads, during the Reconquista, are Christians 
and Jews subject to restrictive and harsh laws. 
Literature, poetry, and song are the life of the Andalusians. 
The legacy of the Moslems as a literate society lives on here. 
Since Islamic law does not allow the depiction of human or 
animal forms, the visual arts, including drama, have not 
developed in this area. Focus on the written and spoken word 
has grown from the need to release creative energies in a 
socially acceptable manner. Architecture is highly valued in 
Andalusian society. The use of arches, arabesques, and pleas- 
ant courtyards has been influenced by the Arabs. Even the great 
cathedrals, built for Christians in the north, are often erected by 
Moslem laborers. 
Government 
During the taifa periods, the government of Andalusia 
tends towards absolutism. Each province's governor considers 
himself king of his realms and takes many liberties. The courtly 
practices of the taifa kings have therefore grown more ceremo- 
. . . .  
. . . .  
.. 
.. 
... 
... 
. . .  
nial. For example,'some rulers go to great lengths to prevent 
their faces from being seen and hold audiences from behind a 
curtain. It's not unheard of for Moslem supporters among the 
Order of Hermes to act as court wizards, protecting taifa kings' 
faces with Imiigonem spells. Many of these Magi thusly break 
the Code of Hermes in response to persecution they have 
suffered at the hands of Magi backing the Reconquista. 
Furthermore, the influx of skilled artisans displaced by 
advancing Christians, and greater taxes levied against Chris- 
tians within the taifa realms, allows the taifa kings to amass 
great quantities of wealth. Their palaces overflow with luxury. 
Greedy and isolated, taifa lungs are particularly vulnerable to 
demonic influence. 
Although the more rigid Almoravids and Almohads have 
taken over Andalusia, the traditions of previous Arabs largely 
persist. However, Jews are more severely persecuted by the 
fundamentalist Moors. Many Jews emigrate to Castile. The 
Moz&rubes are also persecuted by the Moors and their persecu- 
tion increases as the Christians advance. Moz&rabes are fre- 
quently taken north by victorious Christian armies. 
- 
C~RDOVA 
~ 
~ 
Once the capital of the Caliphate, Cbrdova has now fallen 
behind the city of Seville in political importance. C6rdova still 
retains the grandeur of its past, however, and continues to 
thrive. At its height, Cordova had over 113,000 homes at its 
center, 21 distinct suburbs, and a total population of over 
700,000. Since the city is no longer the capital of the Caliphate, 
the population has declined but the city and its suburbs still 
hold about 300,000 people. The central area of Cbrdova is the 
most densely populated area, holding over a third of the 
population. 
Near the Guadalquivir River sits the great mosque of 
Cbrdova. Originally built by 'Abd-al-Rahmiin I and enlarged by 
his successors, it is one of the greatest architectural achieve- 
ments of Islam. The mosque is entered through a plaza that is 
plantedwith orange trees andhas fountains for ritual ablutions. 
Inside, the columns grow tree-like to support the roof and 
many chandeliers light their graceful curves. For the layout of 
the mosque's interior, see The Great Mosque of Cdrdova map. 
During Friday prayers the many doors of the mosque are 
thrown open and the rows of trees seem to extend the columns 
of the mosque. 
Next to the mosque is the palace of Cordova's ruler. This 
was originally the Caliph but now Cordova is subject to Seville 
and a qa'id or governor lives in the palace. The qa'id is a regular 
figure at evening prayers. The cool of the early evening has 
become a time to approach the governor, in the streets, with 
concerns or problems. 


--- Page ---

. 


--- Page ---

he isolation of the Iberian peninsula is ex- 
pressed in meetings of its Magi. The Iberian 
Tribunal and its meetings rarely see represen- 
tatives from other Hermetic Tribunals. Tribu- 
nal meetings themselves are run, for the most part, as described 
in the Ars Magica supplement, The Order of Hermes. How- 
ever, the isolation of the Iberian Tribunal has led to the 
development of some distinctive practices. 
For instance, any actions taken by the Tribunal are re- 
corded and entered in the Peripheral Code of Iberia. This 
portion of the Code represents the attitudes and practices of the 
Quaesitoris within the Tribunal. Not all of their decisions are 
upheld in Grand Tribunal, nor do they become part of the 
Order-wide Peripheral Code, but the Quaesitoris of Iberia use 
these precedents to govern future Tribunal decisions. 
In the late 12th and early 13th centuries, the Praeco of the 
Iberian Tribunal is Matlus of Barcelona, follower of Jerbiton. 
Although Matlus is from Barcelona, the Covenant's Magi refuse 
to allow the Tribunal to be held in their city. They have very 
strict rules against public acts, seeking to keep their presence 
secret from local mundanes. The Iberian Tribunal therefore 
continues to meet at a Covenant in the foothills of the Pyrenees. 
The previous Praeco lived there before he entered Final Twi- 
light. 
The volatile nature of the Tribunal's Flambeau Magi 
usually prevents them from becoming Praeco, even though 
they are abundant. Flambeau here also tend to die before 
becoming the oldest Magi in the Tribunal. Given their lack of 
political power, Flambeau in Iberia are often frustrated by the 
decisions made by others, whom they consider weak and timid. 
DarceCona 
Symbol: A silver rooster 
Season: Autumn 
Year Founded A.D. 1014 
House Affiliation: Jerbiton 
Aura: Magic 4 
Members: Farusca, Carles, Franc Severel, and Matlus, all 
Number of Grogs: 5 
Armaments: Superior 
Library Art Scores: Creo 6, Intellego 14, Muto 9, Perdo 7, 
Rego 15,Anima110,Aquam5,Auram6, 
Corporem 11,Herbam 
9, Ignem 5, Idgonem 11, Mentem 12, Terram 8, Vim 10 
Library Ability Scores: Barcelona Lore 7, Humanities 7*, 
Church Knowledge 4, Jewish Lore 3**, Hebrew Instruction 4, 
Arabic Instruction 4, Occult Lore 4, Fantastic Beast Lore 3, 
Faerie Lore 2, Medicine 2, Magic Theory 6, Hermes Lore 1, 
Hermes History 5 
of House Jerbiton 
* Score of 9 for those who Speak or Scribe Arabic at 3+ 
** Score of 6 for those with Speak or Scribe Hebrew at 3+ 
The Barcelona Covenant is unusual in that its members 
live in a major city. Raw vis is scarce within the confines of the 


--- Page ---

Dominion, so the Covenant is small. The few Magi, however, 
revel in the diversity, art, wealth, and sophistication that only 
a city like Barcelona can offer. In order to nyintain their 
secrecy, the Magi of Barcelona Covenant live separate lives, 
coming together infrequently. They have legal Hermetic 
jurisdiction over the city, supervising members of the Order 
who visit. The Magi use members of House Mercere to 
communicate this fact to other Covenants. Any Covenant 
within reasonable traveling distance of Barcelona, or any that 
asks House Mercere for information on the city, is told of 
restrictions on the city and of how to contact the Covenant and 
its Magi. 
Upholding its promise to keep the peace and maintain 
order in Barcelona, the Covenant has petitioned for and gained 
special rights, such as jurisdiction over all Magi, their friends, 
and hirelings in the city. The Barcelona Magi routinely 
command Magi who visit the city, prohibiting or demanding 
certain actions. Obstinate and independent visitors sometimes 
object to such treatment, even taking their issues up at Tribu- 
nal, but usually to little effect. 
Barcelona’s Magi serve the Order’s interests by informing 
local Magi of important events and by distributing literature, 
poetry, and philosophy to all who are interested. Whether this 
serves the Order in general or the artistic Magi of House 
Jerbiton specifically is open to question. The Covenant also 
advises and aids Magi who come to the city, helping them 
become familiar with the place, helping them travel in safety, 
and helping them remain discreet. 
LOCATION 
The Covenant of Barcelona is located in the great sprawl of 
habitation that surrounds Barcelona’s walled center. The 
Covenant itself lies underground and is built around the 
ancient temple of Mercury that graced the city in Roman times. 
The entrance to the Covenant is guarded by the Inn of the Silver 
Rooster. The Magi of Barcelona maintain this inn, and it’s 
staffed by trusted servants. A prosperous establishment, the 
Silver Rooster also acts as a source of income for the Covenant. 
Only one Magus, Farusca, lives at the Covenant proper. The 
rest of the Covenant members are spread throughout the city 
and maintain their own affairs. 
The Inn of the Silver Rooster is located on the Barcelona 
map, above. The interior of the inn is shown on the Inn of the 
Silver Rooster map. 
The Silver Rooster 
For visiting Magi, the most important action of Barcelona 
Covenant is its support of the Silver Rooster. The Rooster is a 
functional, prosperous inn. In the rooms beneath it, however; 
are the major areas of the Covenant where the head of the 
Covenant, Farusca, lives. Magi who visit Barcelona are in- 
structed by members of House Mercere, either before the Magi 
set out or on the road to the city, that the Order requires them 
to report to Farusca when they arrive. Visiting Magi must 
identify themselves, tell what they know of the city, and reveal 
their plans there. In return, Farusca relates important prob- 
lems in the city. Those who need a private place and an 
understanding innkeeper may stay at the Silver Rooster. Most 
Magi, however, are told to find lodging elsewhere so that, 
should they be discovered as Magi, they will not incriminate the 
inn. 
The inn is built on the site of an ancient temple of Mercury, 
and has a Magic Aura of four. On high holidays, such as 
Christmas and Easter, the Dominion rises to five and over- 
comes the Magic Aura. 
To establish one’s identity as a Magus to the staff of the 
Silver Rooster, a visitor is instructed to offer to pay for some- 
thingwith three and three-quarters quartemales (about enough 
for a private room for two, or wine and fruit for half a dozen). 
Andreau, the innkeeper, responds: “Silver is a great power.” 
The character is then expected to say, “But there are greater 
powers.” Andreau is then likely to ask if the character would 
like to dine in a private room. 
INHABITANTS 
There are very few people occupying Barcelona Covenant. 
To the casual observer these folk seem nothing more than inn 
workers and operators. Keep in mind that the Covenant is 
actually a meeting place for the city’s few Magi. 
Andreau the Innkeeper 
Characteristics: Intelligence (clever) +1, Perception 
(trained eye) +2, Strength (large biceps) +1, Stamina (cor- 
pulent) +1, Presence 0, Communication (expressive) +1, 
Dexterity 0, Quickness (fat) -1 
Age: 37 
Size: 0 
Virtues and Flaws: Magic Item + 1, Poor Hearing (-3 to 
hearing rolls) -1 
Abilities: Speak CatalaflrovenCal (wizardly terms) 5, 
Scan (details) 4, Dodge (thrown items) 2, Pretend (igno- 
rance) 4, Charm (patrons) 4, Folk Ken (Barcelona’s peas- 
ants) 3, Barcelona Lore (recent events) 4, Brawl (pinning) 
2, Knife Attack (surprise attacks) 5, Drinking (competi- 
tions) 3, Intimidation (drunks) 3, Chirurgy (glasswounds) 
2, Hermes Lore (local Magi) 2 
Confidence: 3 
Reputation: Friendly (peasants) 1 
Personality Traits: Brave +1, Loyal +3, Jovial +2 
Weapons and Armor: 
Dagger Totals: First Strike +5, Attack +9, Damage +8 
Encumbrance: 0 
Other Combat Totals: Dodge Defense +1(7 Action), 
Soak +1(7 Action), Fatigue +1 


--- Page ---

Matteu the Bouncer 
Characteristics: Intelligence 0, Perception (alert for 
trouble) +1, Strength (broadchest) +5, Stamina (hearty) +3, 
Presence (scarred) -3, Communication (somber) -2, Dex- 
teriv (fluid movements) +2, Quickness (darting) +1 
Age: 25 
Size: 0 
Virtues and Flaws: Knack with Punch (+4 to punch 
combat scores, as totaled below) +2, Disfigured (-3 to 
Presence rolls) -1, Lost Love -1 
Abilities:Speakcatalan/hu>vencal(intimidationterms)4, 
Dodge (unarmed melee) 4, Alertness (trouble) 2, Athletics 
(jumps) 2,Brawl (punches) 6,Intimidation (prospectivebrawl- 
ers) ~,Diplomacy(easingco~ontatio~) 
1,Legendbre (great 
bmwlers) 2 
Confidence: 4 
Reputation: Unbeatable (bar fighters) 3 
Personality Traits: Brave +2, Loyal +2, Proud of 
Weapons and Armor: 
Punch Totals*: First Strike +11, Attack +12, Dam- 
Encumbrance: 0 
Other Combat Totals: Dodge Defense +5 (1 1 Action), 
* Assuming Speed, Attack Bonus, and Weapon Dam- 
Strength +3, Sullen +3 
age +15 
Soak +3 (9 Action), Fatigue +3 
age are zero, for ease of play. 
Grogs 
Barcelona Covenant does not maintain a regular turb of 
Grogs. A group of bruisers with nothing to do but hang around 
the Silver Rooster would attract attention. The Covenant 
therefore maintains relations with a few select alrnogdvers, but 
only hires them when Magi feel a need for physical protection. 
The Magi usually hire these bodyguards through agents, typi- 
cally Andreau or Matteu, but occasionally meet with them in 
disguise to hire them personally. These rough people are 
unaware of the Covenant’s existence. They are, however, 
concerned with their honor and defend Magi that hire them 
with their lives. 
Companions 
0 
The following people are those with specialized skdls that 
Barcelona’s Magi regularly rely upon. These tend to life at the 
Silver Rooster, and largely live in the Covenant proper beneath 
the inn. 
\ 
Andreau, the Innkeeper 
Andreau is a slightly rotund consor. He understands 
people and manipulates them with flair and ease. He is jovial, 
middle-aged, and good with a dagger. Andreau is losing his 
hearing but still enjoys talking with customers. He has learned 
J 
1 
Y 
- 


--- Page ---

5 I 
Vicent the Groom 
Characteristics: Intelligence (simple) -2, Percep- 
tion 0, Strength (wiry) +1, Stamina (determined) +2, 
Presence (wild) -3, Communication (grunts) -5, Dex- 
terity (nimble) +2, Quickness (swift) +4 
Age: indeterminate 
Size:O 
8 
Virtues and Flaws: Faerie Upbringing (+3 to Person- 
ality Trait rolls when dealing with magic and faeries) +1, 
Reserves of Strength (add +4 to Strength once a day, but 
make two Short-Term Fatigue rolls) +2, Berserk (smell of 
blood; s e e k  Magica, p. 76) +1, Mute -2, 
Uncommon Fear 
(crowds) -1, Short Attention Span (double Experience 
Points to learn Abilities) -1 
Abilities: Understand CatahProvengd (commands) 3, 
Animal Handling (horses) 4, Dodge (improvised weapons) 3, 
Athletics (running) 4, Climb (wooden walls) 3, Survival (for- 
ests) 5, Play (flute) 2,Brawl (bar fights) 2, Stealth (alleys) 3, Craft 
Straw (anunal shapes) 2, Faerie Lore ( U d e  faeries) 4 
Confidence: 2 
Reputation: Feral Child (local children) 1 
Personality Traits: Angry +1, Brave +2, Loyal (to 
Andreau) +2, Loyal (to Covenant) 0, Reliable-1, Solitary +3 
Weapons and Armor: 
Punch Totals*: First Strike +6, Attack +4, Damage +3 
Encumbrance: 0 
Other Combat Totals: Dodge Defense +7 (13 Action), 
* Assuming Speed, Attack Bonus, and Weapon Dam- 
Soak +2 (8 Action), Fatigue +2 
age are zero, for ease of play. 
to spot Magi who travel to Barcelona and quickly provides them 
opportunity to present themselves. Andreau looks after Vicent, 
the groom (see below), treating him like a son. 
Andreau enjoys flattery about how he cooks and runs the 
inn. 
Andreau owns a simple silver ring that reveals the motive 
of a person. It can be used six times a day. Andreau must twist 
the ring (as if fidgeting) and stare into the subject’s eyes. The 
ring Penetrates Magic Resistance on a stress roll modfied by 
+15, basedon theMentemForm. Theringonlyworksfor those 
to whom it is given in good faith. So, if the ring is stolen the thief 
does not find out it is magical. For purposes of investigating the 
ring in the lab, treat its power as Level 15. 
Matteu, the Bouncer 
Matteu the bouncer, also a consor, usually stands near the 
door to the inn. His right and left fsts are nicknamed “lighting” 
and “thunder,” respectively. Almogdvers come here to test 
themselves against him. Farusca has hinted that Matteu should 


--- Page ---

take a couple falls so he can lose his reputation and stop 
attracting attention, but he is too proud. Besides, he needs to 
keep in practice. 
Matteu’s faceiscoveredwithsmallscars that he’s pickedup 
in fights. He has experienced true love but lost it. His funcCe, 
Maria, died after contracting the pox several years ago. Since 
then Matteu has been somber. 
Matteu wears a copper bracelet which calms the person 
into whose eyes he looks and says, “Why don’t you culm duwn?” 
The effect Penetrates those with Magic Resistance on a stress 
roll, modified by +20, using the Mentem Form. The bracelet 
can be used three times a day. It only works for those to whom 
itisfreelygiven. Wheninvestigating theitem’spowerin thelab, 
assume it to be Level 15. 
Vicent, the Groom 
Years ago, when Andreau was traveling through the 
Pyrenees, a strange, naked boy came out of the woods and 
approached his campfire. Andreau offered him food, and the 
boy followed Andreau back to Barcelona, where Andreau 
named him Vicent and taught him how to tend horses. Vicent 
could apparently understand Catalan from the start, but he has 
never spoken a word. When Magi have delved into his mind, 
they have found it confusing and the contact disturbing. The 
general consensus is that Vicent is a mortal taken by faeries as 
a child. 
Pol, Farusca’s Assistant 
. 
Characteristics: Intelligence (wily) +2, Perception 
(wary) +3, Strength 0, Stamina 0, Presence (misshapen) -2, 
Communication (self-conscious) - lpexterity (flexible) + 1, 
Quickness (agile) +4 
Age: 27 
Size: -2 
Virtues and Flaws: Latent Magical Abhty (Herbalism, 
but hasn’t discovered it yet) +2, Educated +1, Tough (+3 to 
Soak, calculated below) +1, Dwarf -4, Hunchback -2 
Abilities: Speak Catalaflrovenpl (bawdy jokes) 4, 
Magic Theory (potions) 2, Dodge (lunges) 4, Athletics 
(tumbling) 3, Pretend (stupidity) 3, Acting (clowning) 3, 
Brawl (knocking off balance) 3, Stealth (indoors) 4, 
Shortsword Attack (striking from behind) 4 
Confidence: 2 
Reputation: None 
Personality Tmits: Brave: +2, Faithfd +3, Melancholy +1 
Weapons and Armor: 
S h o ~ ~ ~ o r d  
Totals: First Stnke +lo, At~ck+ll, 
Damage +8 
Encumbrance: 0 
Other Combat Totals: Dodge Defense +6 (12 Action), 
Body Levels: OK, -3, -5, Incapacitated 
Fatigue Levels: OK, -3, -5, Unconscious 
Soak +1(7 Action), Fatigue +O 
Vicent looked ten years old when Andreau found him c 
about fifteen years ago. Vicent now looks somewhere between 
fourteen and thirty, depending on the light in which he is seen 
He generally has bare legs, feet, and arms. 
Vicent spends most of his time alone in the stables, tendmg 
the horses with love and care. Sometimes, late at night, he 
comes into the inn and listens to Andreau talk. If a large brawl 
breaks out in the Silver Rooster, Vicent smells blood and 
charges, frenzied, into the melee. He is especially wild when 
defending Andreau. 
Vicent is unfamihr with society beyond the Silver Rooster. 
- 1  
Pol, Furuscu’s Assistunt 
Pol was discovered by Farusca, head of the Covenant, in . 
the waterfront district of the city. Pol had been a slave of Arabs, 
put to work entertaining Moslem warriors, but was liberated 
with the southern movement of the Reconquista. However, hls 
life as a freeman was little better, being forced to beg and 
perform for money in Barcelona’s alleys. Farusca recognized 
the unfortunate man’s latent magic, but hls deformity some- 
how precluded him from becoming a Magus, so Farusca 
continued to employ him as a servant. 
Pol is is eager to help and please. He makes himself out to 
be comical, to trick potential enemies into underestimating 
him. Actually, Pol is clever, observant, and capable of defend- 
. 
-
-
-
s
 


--- Page ---

Farusca 
Characteristics: Intelligence (creative) +3, Perception 
0, Strength (feeble) -2, 
Stamina 0, Presence (silky hair) +1, 
Communication 0, Dexterity (clumsy) -1, Quickness (pon- 
dering) -3 
Age: 64 (looks 45) 
Size: 0 
Virtues and Flaws: Gentle Gift (no -3 penalty to social 
rolls) +1, Magical Affinity (Imdgonem) +3, Susceptibility to 
Faerie Power (see Ars Magica, p. 73) -4 
Abilities: Speak CataladProvencal (management 
terms) 4, Magical Affinity (Imagonem) 4, Humanities 
(Provencal poetry) 4, Finesse (Idgonem) 3, Alertness 
(magical displays) 5, Folk Ken (witch hunts) 4, Pretend 
(mundane existence) 3, Panna Magica (Intellego) 2, Speak 
Latin (poetry) 5, Scribe Latin (epics) 3, Magic Theory 
(scrolls) 6, Hemes Lore (public wizardry) 5, Hemes 
History (legal processes) 2, Etiquette (urban manners) 3, 
Leadership (engenderingloyalty) 3, Intimidation (Magi) 5, 
Hermetic Law (Covenant rights) 2, Barcelona Lore (intel- 
lectual circles) 3, Church Lore (clergy’s tolerance) 3, Scribe 
Arabic (classic translations) 4, Occult Lore (demons) 4 
Confidence: 3 
Reputation: Domineering (Magi) 3 
Personality Traits: Brave: +2, Harsh +3, Careful +3 
TechniquesandFonns:Creo8,In~ego22,Muto6,Pdo 
8,Rego 1 2 , ~ 1 h d 9 , A ~ p n 5 , A m 5 ,  
C 6 p m  10,Herbam 
7, Ignem 8, Wgonem 12, Mentem 10, Tenam 5, Vim 16 
Spell Casting Speed: +O 
Twilight Points: 6 
Effects of Twilight: None 
Spells Known: 
Eye ofthe Sage (InCo 30) +32: Used to spy on people, 
including characters visiting Barcelona. 
Opening the Intangible Tunnel (ReVi 35) +28: Powerful 
enough for the Wand of the Silent Witness. 
Circular Ward Against Demons (ReVi 25) +28: Cast at 
dawn and dusk. 
Peering into the Mortal Mind (InMe 30) +32: Will use 
this to test a person who proves untrustworthy; those who 
do not submit she bars from Barcelona. 
Imgefrorn the Wizard Torn (ReIm 15) +28: She uses 
this to talk to visitors, rarely meeting them in the flesh. 
Mastered. 
Frosty Breath ofthe Spoken Lie (InMe 20) +32, Aegis of 
the Hearth (ReVi 30) +28, Viper’s Gaze (ReAn 15) +21, 
Chi~rgeonLHealing Touch (CrCo 20) +18, 
Whispers Through 
the Black Gate (InCo 15) +32, The Inexorable Search (InCo 
20) +32, Incantation ofthe Milky Eyes (PeCo 20) +18, Rise 
ofthe Feathery Body (ReCo 15) +22, Lqting the Dangling 
Puppet (ReCo 20) 22, Image ofthe Past State (InIm 15) +38, 
Eyes of the Past (InIm 25) +38, Invisibility of the Standing 
Wizard (PeIm 15) +24, Panic ofthe Trembling Heart (CrMe 
15) +18, Unseen A m  (ReTe 5) +17, Wizard’s Subtle Touch 
(InVi 5) +38, Sense the Nature ofVis (InVi 10) +38, Scales of 
the Magical Weight (InVi 15) +38, Waiting Spell (ReVi 25) 
+28, Watching Ward (ReVi 20) +28 
Wizards Sigil: Papers in the vicinity flutter 
Weapons and Armor: None 
Encumbrance: 0 
Other Combat Totals: Dodge Defense -3 (3 Action), 
Soak +O (6 Action), Fatigue +O 
ing himself and Farusca. Characters who foolhardily threaten Famca of /e&iton. Head of the Covenant 
J J  
Farusca may find their kidneys suddenly removed from be- 
hind. 
J 
Farusca takes her position as head of the Covenant very 
Pol has occasionally spied or run messages above ground, 
but is too valuable to risk casually (and his frequent appearance 
on the streets might attract attention to the Covenant beneath 
the Silver Rooster). Pol accompanies Farusca to Tribunals, 
where his sharp senses and quiet feet can be decidedly useful. 
Sadly, even Farusca’s employment of Pol is somewhat 
abusive, using him for her own purposes and denying his 
rights. Pol grows bored with living underground, but is too 
loyal to Farusca to complain. 
seriously. She knows she has the position only because the 
older Magi have better things to do with their time, but she still 
considers it an honor to be a member of Barcelona Covenant. 
Since she took over as head of the Covenant in 1186, Farusca 
has managed to avoid many potential incidents. 
Farusca has seen several Magi come to Barcelona from 
“less civilized” areas and fall apart under the stress of hiding 
their identities. Farusca greets all new Magi with the assump- 
tion that they too will break the masquerade and endanger the 
Covenant. She therefore treats all visiting Magi with suspicion 
. 
and disgust. However, discreet Magi soon win her respect and 
trust; the harsh image she presents to newcomers is partly a 
The following four people are the Jerbiton Magi of Barcelona show designed to coerce others into caution. 
Covenant. Each has a personal life well beyond the Covenant 
Farusca believes that the weak link in the Covenant’s 
itself, but all still wield considerable political power in the secrecy is Caries, one of her fellow Magi. The dreadful eye 
Iberian Tribunal, no doubt a result of their unique rights to the carved over the door of hls book shop draws unwanted 
peninsula’s greatest city. 
Magi 


--- Page ---

attention. Carles says he puts on an occult image to draw 
attention away from himself, since no true Magus would make 
such a display. Farusca correctly identifies this as self-decep- 
tion. 
If Farusca could find a capable Magus to take her place as 
head of the Covenant, she would enter Barcelonan society as a 
wealthy widow from Languedoc. She lives in what she consid- 
ers the most beautiful city in the world, but spends almost all 
her time in a hole in the ground. 
Farusca wears a bronze ring on her right ring finger. If she 
clenches her fist and says “Shatter, shatter,” the shard of 
Tyritescus’s heart, kept beneath the Covenant’s laboratory (see 
below), will be struck by a strong Perdo Terram force. Farusca 
used a bit of powder scraped off the crystal when malang the 
ring, so believes the spell will bypass any magic resistance the 
shard may have, but won’t be sure until she tries it. The spell 
can only be cast once. 
Farusca carries what she calls the Wand of the Silent 
Witness. The wand casts the spell Clenching Grasp of the 
Cmhed Heart once a day. The device Penetrates Magic 
Resistance on a stress roll, modified by +35. 
CurIes ofJerbiton, the Scribe 
Carles is one of the “free” Magi of Barcelona Covenant, 
devoting most of his time to his own pursuits, outside the Silver 
Rooster. He is a thin, sunken-eyed man who runs a shop that 
buys and sells books, specializing in the rare and occult. The 
shop is called Books of the Eye. Carles never sells actual 
Hermetic texts to non-Hermetic people, but does a good trade 
in what he calls. “pseudo-magical conjecture.” His position as 
a dealer in the occult gives him the opportunity to keep track 
of potentially interesting books that pass through the city. 
Carles is incredibly happy. He loves his weird little shop, 
his cat, and all the interesting, disturbed, and even scary people 
who come to his shop for the books only he would have. Carles 
cares nothing for normal people, normal crafts, or normal arts. 
To identify oneself as a Magus at Carles’s shop, a character 
must say, “Do you have anything written by Quflara?” (Quiffara 
was Carles’s master.) Farusca is willing to relate this password. 
In response Carles says, “Why do you ask?” The character is 
then expected. to answer, “I’d like to learn something about his 
famous student.” Yes, Carles is somewhat arrogant, and that is 
probably   IS greatest weakness. 
Carles wears a carved coral pendant that looks like an eye. 
The item allows him to cast the equivalent of Quench the 
Rippling Flames (Perdo Ignem Level 5) ten times a day. Carles 
takes few chances with his books. 
Noscur, Curles’s Familiar 
Noscur is a thin, black cat with some gray hairs. He spends 
a lot of time mousing and exploring Carles’s shop. He also 
wanders outside, but prefers to be around books. The Street of 
Books, where Carles’s shop is located, is Noscur‘s territory, and 
he fights other toms for it. 
pr 
A- 
Jr 
d 
t 


--- Page ---

Carles 
Characteristics: Intelligence (bookworm) +2, Percep- 
tion (eye for detail) +1, Strength (thin arms) -1, Stamina 
(persistent) +1, Presence (absorbed in a book) -1, Commu- 
nication (eloquent) +1, Dexterity (tired fingee) -3, Quick- 
ness 0 
Age: 77 (looks 55) 
Size: 0 
Virtues and Flaws: Book Learner (treat books studied 
as 2 levels higher than they are) +1, Gentle Gift (no -3 to 
social rolls) +1, Knack (+4 with languages) +2, Necessary 
Condition (must hold book to cast spells) -1 , Gangling -2, 
Over-Confident -2 
SpeakLatin (magical terms) 5, ScribeLatin (occult~ormation) 
4, Magic Theory (Arabic magic) 6, Hermes Lore (local wiz- 
ardry) 4, H m e s  History (tomes) 4, PumMugica (Intdlego) 
2, Occult Lore (chabolism) 3, Finese(precision) 3, search 
(books) 3, Pretend (innocence about magic) 2, Concentration 
(reading) 3, Debate (vahdity of Barcelona’s masquerade) 2, 
Forgery (manuscripts) 4, Bqam (prices) 4, Evaluate (books) 
4, Barcelona Lore (centers of learning) 4, Scribe Arabic (magical 
writings) 2, Scribe Catalan (book orders) 4, Humanities (clas- 
sics) 3 
Abilities: speak C a M O V e n d  (business terms) 4, 
Confidence: 3 
Reputation;, Dangerous to Masquerade (Barcelona’s 
Magi) 1 , Potential Heretic (Barcelona’s Church) 1 
Personality Traits: Brave +2, Likes the Bizarre +3, 
Bored by Mundanes +3 
Techniques and Forms: C m  10, Intdlego 25, Muto 10, 
himid 15, Perdo 8, Rego 15, Aquam 7, Auram 5, Gjrporem 10, 
Herbam12,Ignem8,I1nigonem14,Mentem18,Term.tn 
10,Vim 
12 
Spell Casting Speed: +3 
Twilight Points: 12 
Effects of Twilight: None 
Spells Known: 
“Arbert” Disguise (MuIm 20) +25 
Spell Focus: None 
R Reach, D: Sun 
Gives a person the appearance and voice of a fictitious 
person that Carles calls Arbert. Clothes are not changed. 
Carles usually uses this spell himself, never having tried it 
on anyone very short or very tall, who is a hunchback, or is 
otherwise unusual in build. The spell works fine on 
women, although “Arbert” would be wearing women’s 
clothes. 
Eye ofthe Eons (InTe 5) +26: Useful for appraising old 
tomes. Mastered. 
Otherwise, Carles spends a great deal of time reading 
and has thus garnered a large number of Formulaic spells. 
As a guideline, he has access to any widely available 
Hermetic spell with a Level less than his appropriate 
Technique + Form + Magic Theory + Intelligence score. 
Wizards Sigil: Dried ink in the area turns to liquid for 
the moment of the casting. (Carles attempts to avoid 
casting spells in his shop.) 
Weapons and Armor: None 
Encumbrance: 0 
Other Combat Totals: Dodge Defense +O (6 Action), 
Soak +1 (7 Action), Fatigue +1 
Noscur, Carles’ Cat Familiar 
Magic Might: None 
Vital Statistics: Size -3, Intelligence (creative) +1, 
Perception (night vision) +5, Strength (thin muscles) -3, 
Stamina 0, Presence (vicious) -1, Communication 0, Dex- 
terity (always lands on feet) +3, Quickness (swift) +3 
Virtues and Flaws: None 
. 
’ 
Persorptlity Traits: Curious +4, Brave +3, Likes the 
Reputation: Great Mouser (cats) 1 
Confidence: 3 
Combat Totals: 
Bite & Claw Totals. First Strike +5, Attack +5, Damage -3 
Body Levels: OK, -3, Incapacitated 
Bizarre +3 
Fatigue Levels: OK, -3, Unconscious 
Dodge Defense +7 (13 Action), Soak -2 (4 Action), 
Encumbrance: 0 
Abilities: Speak CatalanProvenCal (animal names) 2, 
Powers: None 
Bond Cords. Bronze Cord (body) 1 , Silver Cord (mind) 3, 
Golden Cord (magic) 1 
Bond Qualities: Mental Communication (within 100 
pace range) 
Vis: None 
Fatigue +O 
Stealth (hunting) 6, Perfect Balance (narrow perches) 3 


--- Page ---

r-I 
CHAPTER FIVE: COVENANTS OF IBERIA- 
The Books of the Eye 
I 
OntheStreetofEboksisauniqueshop. 
Ithasnoneofthe 
usual wares dqlayed on an outdoor shelf and has no hawker 
standmg in the street. The strange books sold here are for a 
select few, not the casual browser. The shop can easily be 
identrfieedby an eye carved above the door. Carles ofJerbiton, 
known as Carla of the Eye, runs the shop. 
For the layout of the shop, see The Books ofthe Eye map. 
Main Room - 
The shelves, stools, and floor are covered 
with books, scrolls, papers, and dust. The place is lit only by 
sunlight, coming in through the open fi-ont window; Carles is 
&d 
of starting a fire with a candle. A dun, old cat can often 
be found lounging on a shelf or in the sun that comes through 
the window. The aisles allow room for one person to pass at 
a time, barely. 
Upper Room - 
Carles’s quarters, austere and cluttered. 
Thisroomholdsthemoney,overathousandquartemles, that 
Carles uses for dally transactions. 
Parlor - 
A place for meeting with Hermetic visitors. 
Carles only takes people that he trusts down here. 
private Library - 
Spacious but chaotic. It includes 
Carles’spersonalmagi~booksandismarkedashissanctum. 
ThebookalsohasachestwithCarles’sreservesofdver,about 
huty thousand quarternales. 
Magical Defenses - 
Waiting Spells to knock out those 
who break in are on eveiy entrance to the shop. The spell has 
aPenetrationfactorof+20andoperatesontheMentemForm. 
Victims who hl a Magic Resistance roll fall unconscious for 
l 
1dlORounds. 


--- Page ---

Franc Severel 
Characteristics: Intelligence 0, Perception (distracted 
lifestyle) -1, Strength 0, Stamina (hearty) +1, Presence 
(dapper) +1, Communication (clear voice) +2, Dexterity 0, 
Quickness (casual movements) -1 
Age: 94 (looks 50) 
Size: 0 
Virtues and Flaws: Gentle Gift (no -3 to social rolls) 
+ 1, Social Contacts (business) + 1, Minor Magic Deficiency 
(Animal is halved for magic use) -1, Weakness (music) -1 
Abilities: Speak CataladProvencal (business terms) 5, 
Speak Arabic (business terms) 4, SpeakLatin (music terms) 
5, Scribe Latin (letters) 4, Scribe Catalan (orders) 4, Magic 
Theory (spells with Arcane Connections) 6, Hemes Lore 
(known local wizards) 4, Hermes History (persecuted 
Magi) 3, Pama Magi~a (C6rporem) 3, Alertness (being 
followed) 3, Guile (negotiations) 4, Pretend (ignorance of 
magic) 4, Charm (business people) 4, Ride (caravans) 2, 
Bargain (trade deals) 6, Diplomacy (Arabic traders) 5, 
Leadership (business empire) 5, Play Lute (solo) 3, Sing 
(ballads) 3, Evaluate (cargo) 5, Barcelona Lore (trading 
houses) 6, Church Lore (clergy’s temperance) 4, Humani- 
ties (classical music) 3, Dagger Attack (narrow alleys) 3 
Confidence: 4 
Reputation: Prosperous Businessman (upper class) 4 
Personality Traits: Brave -1, Secretive +3, Fair +2, 
Religious 0 
Techniques and Forms: Creo 14, Intellego 20, Muto 
13, Perdo 12, Rego 16, Animd 10, Aquam 12, Auram 12, 
Cdrporem 14, Herbam 11, Ignem 10, Inxigonem 24, Mentem 
20, Terram 13, Vim 14 
Spell Casting Speed: -1 
Twilight Points: 8 
Effects of Twilight: None 
Spells Known: 
Motion of the Distant Waves (InHe 40) +32 
Spell Focus: None 
R: special, D: YearFern., Ritual 
T h  is the spell that Franc has invented to keep track 
of his merchant fleet. This spell’s demands for vis strain 
Franc’s purse. A piece of each ship’s keel is removed and 
carved into a likeness of the ship (an Arcane Connection). 
The ship’s replica is enchanted in this ritual and moves on 
Franc’s map of the Mediterranean to reflect the ship’s 
position. 
Leap of Homecoming (ReCo 35) +31: Franc has two 
versions of this spell. One returns him to his sanctum, 
within the walls ofBarcelona, and the other takes him to the 
laboratory below the Silver Rooster. 
‘ 
Otherwise, Franc, like Carles, has a lot of time to study. 
His complement of Formulaic spells fills many pages. Like 
Carles, you can assume Franc has access to any widely 
available Hermetic spell with Level below his appropriate 
Laboratory Total. 
Wizards Sigil: Coins are heard to rattle 
Weapons and Armor: 
Dagger Totals: First Strike +3, Attack +7, Damage +5 
Encumbrance: 0 
Other Combat Totals: Dodge Defense -1 (5 Action), 
Soak +1(7 Action), Fatigue +1 
Franc Severel of Jerbiton, the Merchant 
Franc is a powerful member of the Covenant, but mortal 
life has drawn him frommagic over theyears. Twenty years ago 
he came to Barcelona and established himself as a merchant and 
patron of the arts. His business, mostly selling oil and fEh, is 
now tended by underlings, and Franc is free to enjoy a life of 
wealth and artistic luxury. 
If Franc were found to be a Magus, he would have to give 
up his highly-prized lifestyle. He has slain seven people who 
seemed to be learning too much about him, and he has barred 
several Magi whose careless displays of magic in the city have 
attracted the attention of the nobility and Church. To protect 
his identity from incompetents, Franc forbids Farusca and 
Carles from telling visitors that he is a Magus, at least until 
visitors prove themselves trustworthy. 
Franc’s adoption of mortal life includes religion. He 
attends Mass weekly, always in the cathedral, and considers 
himself a Christian. Naturally, he does not agree with all 
Church doctrine, which includes prohibitions against magic. 
He considers doctrine something added to religion by fallible 
humans. The Mass, with its self-purification and the partaking 
of the Divine, is central to his faith. 
Franc lives inside the city walls, no mean accomplishment 
for a merchant. His stone house has an ample garden with a 
high wall surrounding it. Franc has seven unimaginative and 
uncurious servants, and a Turkish slave. Franc treats the slave 
well but the servants do not. 
As a wealthy bachelor, Franc is much sought after by 
young ladies of status. If he ever finds a woman strong enough 
to accept him as a Magus, he will marry. 
Franc has scruples against using magic directly against 
competitors, but does use spells to tell where various ships, 
carrying his goods, are in the Mediterranean. In his sanctum he 
has a map of the seas, with wooden markers to indicate the 


--- Page ---

Matlus 
 
v z z i - i  
CHAJTER FIVE: COVENANTS OF IBERIA 
Characteristics: Intelligence (clever) +1, Perception 0, 
Strength (old muscles) -3, Stamina (tired) -2, Presence 0, 
Communication (expressive) +3, Dexterity 0, Quickness 0 
Age: 107 (looks 75) 
Size: 0 
Virtues and Flaws: Greater Leadership (Iberian Tri- 
bunal) +6, Deft Art (Mentem spell casting penalties halved) 
+ 1, Knack (+2 to rolls with crowds) + 1, Blatant Gift (-6 to 
social rolls) -1, Bad Reputation -1 
Abilities: SpeakCataladProvenpl (ramblings) 5,Speak 
Latin (philosophy) 5, Scribe Latin (philosophy) 5, Scribe 
CataladProvenqal (poems) 5, Speak Arabic (legends) 4, 
Scribe Arabic (religious tales) 3, Magic Theory (longevity 
potions) 7, Hermes Lore (Iberian Tribunal) 5, Hermes 
History (Magi wars) 4, Parma Magica (Mentem) 5, Cha- 
risma (JerbitonMagi) 4, Concentration (memory) 4, Me&- 
tation (puzzles) 4, Debate (need to keep magic hidden) 4, 
Storytelling (fables) 5, Acting (dramas) 3, Diplomacy (be- 
tween Magi) 5, Etiquette (Hermetic) 5, Leadership (Tribu- 
nal) 3, Hermetic Law (precedents) 4, Barcelona Lore (meet- 
ing places) 3, Occult Lore (demonic deceptions) 4, Hu- 
manities (classics) 5 
Confidence: 3 
Reputation: Great Businessman (among merchants, 
but undermines masquerade) 4 
Personality Traits: Brave +2, Foolhardy +1, Talkative 
+4, Likes Attention +2, Confused by People +1 
Techniques and Forms: Creo 18, Intellego 15, Muto 
16, Perdo 12, Rego 24, Animiil 10, Aquam 13, Auram 17, 
Corporem 22, Herbam 10, Ignem 18, Imiigonem 12, Mentem 
32, Terram 14, Vim 20 
Spell Casting Speed: +O 
Twilight Points: 21 
Effects of Twilight: Gained Knack with groups of 
people, gained Deft Art (Mentem), lost Gentle Gift and 
gained Blatant Gift 
Spells Known: 
Invisibility of the Unseen Sewant (ReMe 25) +54 
Spell Focus: A Mundane Tool (+1) 
R Nearbight, D: Sun/Moon, Mastered 
The target of this spell is viewed by others as an 
unremarkable and very common person. Most do not 
notice the presence of the person, as they would fail to 
notice the presence of a menial servant. The subject’s 
presence in places that servants are not allowed attracts 
normal attention, but there are few mundane places that 
servants do not frequent. Even the courts of lungs and 
bedchambers of bishops are served by the “hidden people” 
of society. This spell even works on Magi; including those 
with the Blatant Gift. 
Matlus, in his 75 years as a Magus, has learned a 
phenomenal number of spells. In general, assume he has 
access to any spell that he could invent in the laboratory. It 
should be remembered, however, that Matlus is very close 
to Final Twilight. Knowing this, he rarely casts any spell 
that he has not Mastered. Matlus can be assumed to have 
Mastered any spell with Level less than half his appropriate 
Technique + Form. 
Wizard’s Sigil: The smell of aged skin 
Weapons and Armor: None 
Encumbrance: 0 
Other Combat Totals: Dodge Defense +O (6 Action), 
Soak -2 (4 Action), Fatigue -2 
locations of various ships. If someone were to find this map, 
suspicions of Franc would rise since there’s no normal way to 
immediately know when a ship docks in Alexandria. 
cratic opinion. Despite the sometimes rambling nature of 
Matlus’s words, Agorsila does not consider herself worthy to 
. 
edit them. 
M a t h  ofJerbiton, the Old Nut 
Much as Franc now plays the part of a mortal in Barcelona, 
Matlus played the same role from 1139 to 1182. Merchants still 
occasionally talk abou t “Louis” the cloth merchant, whose luck 
and apparent agelessness are legendary. Matlus’s revealing 
insights into society have made him well-read in the Order, and 
a cult figure for a small group of Jerbiton Magi. Matlus’s last 
apprentice, Agorsila, follows him around recording what he 
says (even though she is now a full Magus), trying to preserve 
as much of his wisdom as possible before he passes on. Old age 
and repeated Twilights have not been kind to Matlus, and he 
has lost his mind’s keen edge. However, what he lacks in 
piercing intelligence he makes up for in heartfelt and idiosyn- 
Excerpts from Matlus’s records may be found in the 
Chapter Four. Characters may find records of these mono- 
logues, or they might meet Matlus and hear him spout these 
collections of dubious wisdom. 
Matlus is Praeco of the Iberian Tribunal and presides from 
a Covenant in the foothills of the Pyrenees, so as to avoid 
disturbing Barcelona Covenant’s masquerade. Matlus still 
returns to Barcelona from time to time, though, drawn by 
nostalgia. Afraid of his Final Twilight, he refuses to disguise 
himself magically, and sometimes forgets how dangerous it is 
to be a Magus in a large city. Matlus has a grasp of human action 
on a societal level, but the personal motivations of inhviduals 
confuse him. FaruscawishesMatluswouldstay out ofBarcelona, 
but he is too popular in House Jerbiton for her to give him 
orders. 


--- Page ---

COVENANT 
DESCRIPTION 
day’s fare includes a fish stew with turnips, roast pork, bread 
from a local baker, pears, pomegranates or oranges, olives, 
dates, figs, and a local wine. 
Back Room - 
Stores are kept here. Daily purchases of 
food and wine make storage rela&ely unimportant compared 
to inns in less active cities. 
For the locations of the following rooms, see the Inn ofthe 
Silver Rooster man 
A 
Andreau’s Room - 
A modest room with a feather bed, 
place’ this is the haunt Of 
washstand, and hooks for many clothes. A strongbox with 
plenty of silver is kept poorly hidden in the washstand so that 
Vicent, the groom. Typically, about half of the six stalls are 
occupied with horses. Bags of grain, brushes, and tools are 
if mundane thieves break in they will find the box and leave 
rather than search long and hard. 
scattered about in the straw, but Vicent knows exactly where 
everything is. The loft is filled with straw and serves as Vicent’s 
The lock on the room’s door is sound and sophisticated. A 
bed. 
Waiting Spell on the door rings bells in Farusca’s room and in 
A Waiting Spell causes a bell to ring in Farusca’s room and the laboratory if Andreau ever says, “Help, help!” Another 
in the laboratory if Vicent pounds three times on a post in the Waiting Spell on the windowsill wakes up one person sleeping 
stables. Vicent thinks the Waiting Spell bothers the horses. 
in the bed if anyone enters by the window. 
Main Room - 
Matteu, the bouncer, stands at the door 
Matteu’s Room - 
Spartan compared to Andreau’s room. 
where he can survey the entire room. Andreau, the innkeeper, It, too, has similar Waiting Spells. 
is usually found here or working in one of the back rooms. 
Hanging lamps light the room, though not completely. Round 
Private Room -A 
room with tapestries On the 
and 
neither the best nor worst of travelers, so one is likely to find strong bolt holds the door. At the far end of the room is a secret 
wine and oil merchants,’ almogdvers, and pilgrims here. 
trap door, fashioned by a Verditius Magus. The trap door is 
normally invisible, but appears if one makes the standard 
Farusca forbids Andreau from preparing any memorable dishes, with the left. Anyone can use these gestures, as the door 
to prevent the inn from becoming too well known. A typical responds to the gestures themselves, not the magic that they 
usually direct. A Magus who sees Andreau open the door might 
- 
A 
tables and chairs with backs fill the place. The inn attracts a long, Polished 
that seats 
to 
A 
but 
Kitchen - 
prepares simp1e but 
fare 
ccRegOw gesture with the right hand and an ccopening99 
gesture 


--- Page ---

think he is actually casting a spell. The door disappears again 
as soon as it’s closed, or in a few moments, whichever passes 
first. Below the trap door is a wooden ladder that leads to the 
subterranean chambers of the Covenant. 
Upper Rooms - 
These are all basically the same, with bolt 
locks, chamber pots, and glassless windows. Since the locks are 
simple bolts, patrons cannot lock doors while they’re out. For 
this reason, Matteu only allows guests in the upper floor. Even 
so, only the naive leave valuables here. 
The Covenant ProDer 
I 
Entry Room - 
This room has a washstand to wash the 
road’s dust from hands and face, pegs on the wall for cloaks, 
benches for rest, and cheese, wine, and bread ona table near the 
washstand. All the subterranean walls are of stone block. The 
entire room is well-lit by a warm, enveloping glow that comes 
from a single candle. This candle, and others like it throughout 
the Covenant, are also gifts from the Verditius Magus who 
designed the trap door. A door leads to the council room and 
a ladder leads up to the private room. 
w!ziiii-/c 
CHAPTER FIVE: COVENANTS OF IBERIA 
Council Room - 
An elliptical table, capable of seating 
twenty, dominates this room. All about the walls are magical 
signs and symbols, some parts of magical defenses, others just 
decoration. The room is entirely lit by candles, set in stands in 
the four comers of the room. This is where Farusca, or at least 
the image she casts with her Imagefrom the Wizard Torn spell, 
meets with Hermetic visitors. 
Storage Room - This room contains spare clothes, 
writing tools, food, wine, and silver. 
Pol’s Quarters - 
A messy (though not dirty) room with 
a pallet and many stained clothes. 
Kitchen and Scullery - 
Small, simple, and efficient. For 
finer food than can be prepared here, Pol goes to Andreau, 
above. 
Farusca’s Quarters - 
The door of this room bears a 
sanctum symbol and is therefore off-hits to uninvited visi- 
tors. The room is small and tidy. Books of poetry line the walls. 
One of these books has a lock of hair glued to each page with 
a name printed over each, such as “Rei En Pere,” and “Father 
Julian.” Actually, each name refers to the lock of hair on the 
opposite side of the leaf, so that someone stealing the book 
might at first be unable to use the locks effectively. The book 
contains hair from nearly everyone of importance in Barcelona , 
and from several beyond, includmg five Magi who have caused 
trouble for Barcelona’s Magi in the past. Farusca has to gather 
new locks of hair regularly, as hair loses its magical potency 
over time. The book is entitled “Friends ofthe Covenant.” 
Two copper bells and one silver one hang on stands in one 
comer. .The larger copper bell rings in response to Andreau’s 
alarm. The other copper bell rings in response to Matteu’s 
alarm, and the silver bell in response to Vicent. 
Y 
i 


--- Page ---

Lowest Level 
Library - 
This large room is filled with row upon row of 
books. The air is filled with the smells of parchment and 
leather. To anyone who appreciates books, it is an amazing 
sight. The walls are covered with shelves lined two books deep, 
so one needs to know by memory where half the books are; they 
cannot be seen. Magical books are in Latin. Mundane books 
are mostly in Latin, with some Catalan (local poetry), Hebrew 
(poetry, mathematics, philosophy, and Jewish hislory), and 
Arabic (mathematics, Greek philosophy, and Arabic philoso- 
Among the books of local lore is a large tome about 
Barcelona’s history from Roman times to present. Matlus wrote 
it, based on long discussions he had with the demon Tyritescus. 
The account of Barcelona’s history, though biased, is mostly 
accurate. This book is very valuable because it is an accurate 
depiction of life before the Middle Ages, something very rare, 
if not unique. 
Laboratory - 
A large, elegantly-equipped laboratory, 
with stores of raw vis in large, clay jars sealed with wax. The top 
of each jar bears the magical symbol for the kind of vis held 
within. There are three bells hanging from stands, just like 
those in Farusca’s room. In a secret hole beneath the stone floor 
is the shard of Tyritescus’s heart (see Tyritescus’s Heart, below). 
Near one wall is a free-standing arch, actually a Hemes 
Portal that takes travelers to a hidden cave in the Pyrenees, near 
Val-Negra. Built into one side of the arch is a shelf that holds 
five small bags, each with a pawn of vis in powder form. The 
only ritual required to use the portal is to walk through with one 
eye closed and one eye open. The portal was constructed in the 
1 1 th century when Val-Negra was the most powerful Covenant 
in the area. Stored in the cave at the other end of the portal is 
magically preserved meat, bread, fruit, and water. This portal 
was created before the rise of the Shadow Flambeau, and is 
intended as an escape route for Barcelona’s Magi. 
Gallery - Filled with statues, ancient Roman altars, 
reliefs, murals, and mosaics. The Magi of Jerbiton are some of 
the few who appreciate art for art’s sake, without a religious or 
social purpose. The current Magi are not clear how the 
previous Magi got the big works down here, though some were 
here when the temple ruins, upon which the Covenant is built, 
were excavated. 
phy). 
OUTSIDE RELATIONS 
All Hermetic visitors to Barcelona are under jurishction of 
Barcelona Covenant, and as such must put up with the de- 
mands of the Covenant’s Magi. Would-be visitors are in- 
structed by members of House Mercere to report to Farusca at 
the Silver Rooster upon arrival. Visiting Magi are also told that 
the Covenant requires payment of one pawn of vis from each 
Magus and another pawn for each five non-Magi (or fraction 
thereof) that visit the city. A group of two Magi and six non- 


--- Page ---

r-I 
CHAJ?TER FIVE: 
COVENANTS OF IBERIA*- 
4 
Magi has to pay four pawns. The variety of raw vis does not 
matter. Magi invited to the city by members of its Covenant are 
free of this charge. 
Farusca takes a lock of hair from anyone she does not trust 
(which includes all first-time visitors to Barcelona) and keeps 
the lock until the person leaves the city, though she never takes 
hair from Quaesitoris. Farusca informs visitors that she uses 
the locks to watch the characters’ activities and send assistance 
if the characters get in trouble. Since Farusca specifies this use 
when she takes the hair, and since it is ostensibly for the good 
of visitors (who might need her help), her watching the 
characters is not considered spying and therefore is not against 
the Code. Anyone that will not relinquish a lock of hair is asked 
to leave Barcelona. Since the Arcane Connection from hair 
grows weak over a relatively short period, most Magi do not 
object to Farusca’s request. 
Those who have come to see the city and enjoy its culture 
are invited to stay (as paying guests) at the Silver Rooster and 
are introduced to places and people of interest. Those who are 
in the city for material gains are told to find lodging elsewhere. 
Any vis Farusca uses for the benefit of visitors, or to remedy 
problems caused by them, must be paid back in double. 
Visitors are also asked to donate “a fair price” in return for 
information about the city and its inhabitants. In practice, the 
amount donated dictates the value of information that Farusca 
divulges. 
There are three rules that visitors must follow or be barred 
from the city: 
Interference with nobles or clergy is prohibited without 
prior permission from Farusca. 
The Order has a treaty of non-interference with Jewish 
Kabbakts; interference in their actions is prohibited. 
Endangering the secrecy of the Covenant is prohibited. 
If publicly identified as Magi, visitors are to flee the city. 
Farusca tells all visitors these rules, and gives whatever 
advice she thinks they need to get along with Barcelona’s 
thousands of mortals. She also lets them know what other Magi 
are visiting the city. 
MYSTICAL 
ATTRIBUTES 
. 
The Silver Rooster makes good use of magic for protection 
and convenience. It has the following enchantments in effect: 
Aegis ofthe Hearth (ReVi 30), covers the entire inn and 
Covenant, renewed annually. 
~ 
Circular Ward Against Demons (ReVi 25), used regularly 
by Farusca. 
Chamber of Spring Breezes (CrAu lo), a spell that keeps 
air fresh in all subterranean rooms. 
TVritescus’s Heart 
J 
Underneath the Covenant’s laboratory is a secret compart- 
ment lined with iron. It contains a shard of Tyntescus’s caligo 
heart (see The Maleficium, p. 60-61). Farusca wears a ring that 
connects her with a Waiting Spell that will destroy the shard 
upon her command. Under this threat, Tyritescus has kept his 
attacks on the Magi subtle and largely ineffectual. 
In the 10th century, a Magus of House Tytalus, who had 
studied Tyritescus’s activities on earth and in Barcelona, real- 
ized that the demon hadsecreted its heart outside its “body” for 
protection. The Magus moved to steal the heart and was nearly 
caught by Tyritescus. The demon failed to stop the thief 
entirely, though. Before dyingshe delivered his heart to a fnend 
in House Jerbiton, Orapelus, the founder of Barcelona’s Cov- 
enant. 
Orapelus did not want to enter Hell’s games, but could 
hardly pass up such a valuable tool. He gave Tyritescus back 
most of his heart on the condition that the demon would never 
reveal the presence of Magi in Barcelona. Orapelus kept a shard 
of the heart, a smoky bit of quartz, to make the demon keep his 
word. With this guarantee, Orapelus established the refuge 
under the Silver Rooster. 
There aremany Quaesitoriswho wouldlookvery dimly on 
Barcelona’s Infernal arrangement. It’s likely that the constant 
presence of the shard has a deleterious effect on the souls of 
those exposed to it. Furthermore, Tyritescus secreoy seeks to 
foster the growth of an Infernal Aura within the Covenant, 
though the shard. He does so slowly, insuring that the Aura is 
not detected until it’s too late. 
If the crystal is destroyed, Tyntescus cannot regenerate 
Might Points on earth and cannot use his malefic powers. The 
Maleficium discusses the many powers that possession of a 
caligo heart offers. If a single Magus gets hold of the shard, she 
can even use the demon’s powers for her own purposes. 
STORY I D E A S O F O R  
BARCELONA 
COVENANT 
Farusca’s harsh style offends a visiting Quaesitor, who 
sets out to destroy the Covenant. Perhaps he finds out about 
the heart of Tyntescus. The characters, as “neutrals” who are 
familiar with the Barcelona Magi, may aid the Quaesitor’s 
investigation or try to help Farusca save her Covenant (for a 
price?). 
After years of activity in Barcelona, people remark on 
how well-preserved Franc is. To avoid suspicion, he takes an 
extended journey and “dws” en route, moving to a nearby 
Covenant. He has no heir, and if the characters have proven 
themselves trustworthy, he can arrange for one of them to be 
a “nephew” or “niece,” who inherits his house and wealth, 
joining Barcelona Covenant in the process. 
Matlus comes to Barcelona, perhaps alone, but definitely 
confused. The characters are asked to encourage him to leave, 
and to watch over him until he does so. Having a group of 
characters guarchng a senile, stubborn, powerful Magus in a 
potentially dangerous place like Barcelona should present 
several humorous and frustrating moments. 
1 


--- Page ---

Symbol: Silver Quaesitor scales over a castle 
Season: Autumn 
Year Founded: A.D. 917 
House Affiliation: Quaesitor 
Aura: Magic 3 
Members: Baruch, Legera, Diurnus, Tacitus, Veritas, 
Number of Grogs: 75 
Armaments: Good 
Library Art Scores: Creo 6, Animiil7, Ignem 14, Intellego 
20, Aquam 8, Imiigonem 11, Muto 12, Auram 6, Mentem 20, 
Perdo 11, Corporem 14, Terram 7, Rego 15, Herbam 6, Vim 15 
Antona, and Tresmillia, all of House Quaesitor 
A 
Rumors spread throughout the city that a mysterious 
woman is miraculously curing the halt, blind, feebleminded, 
and dumb, all of whom abound in the city. The ill are leaving 
the hospitals and leper houses en masse to look for the healer, 
and the afflicted begin pouring into the city. Because the 
woman never comes to the cathedral to acknowledge her 
connection to the Church, the Bishop declares her a magician 
who takes the souls of those she heals. The city’s Veguer and 
King Peter send spies to find the woman and bring her into their 
respective political camps. Farusca wants the characters to 
figure out what’s going on. 
All this chaos is caused by a Magus who has found a pre- 
Hermetic magic item, one that heals almost all afflictions 
without using raw vis, though it only works once for each 
person. The Magus has come to Barcelona with the simple, 
altruistic goal of curing the city’s ill. To protect her identity, she 
uses spells to change her appearance and she constantly moves 
about. Finding her is very difficult, but a strange, ugly man tells 
characters where she can be found. The “man” later reveals 
himself to be Hesst, Tyritescus’s assistant. Tyritescus has sent 
Hesst so the characters will cooperate with a devil to stop these 
“disgusting” healing. Unwitting cooperation with a demon 
does not automatically imply sin, unless characters pursue the 
mystery woman for less than virtuous reasons. 
puresca 
Library Ability Scores: Hermes Lore 7, Hermes History 7, 
Hermetic Law 6, Iberia Lore 7, Iberia History 3, Church 
Knowledge 4, Church Lore 4, Ma.thematics 3 
Founded.late in the 9th century, Duresca is one of the 
oldest Covenants in the Iberian Tribunal. It remains an active 
and powerful influence in the Tribunal because it houses the 
central organization of the Quaesitoris in Iberia. This was not 
always the case, though. Before the discovery of the Duresca 
scrolls in 937, the Covenant did not have any Quaesitoris 
among its members. A delegation of Quaesitoris, including 
Magi from Iberia and other Tribunals, were sent to investigate 
the authenticity of the scrolls. After their investigation, the 
Quaesitoris stayed on at the Covenant. 
Over the half century following the discovery of the 
Duresca scrolls, the Quaesitoris took total control of the 
Covenant. They replaced the Grog turb with Grogs loyal to 
them, and drove off or outlived other members of the Cov- 
enant. Some of the original members moved to other Cov- 
enants when they realized what the Quaesitoris had in store. 
Under the provisions of the Covenant charter, those refugees 
were not allowed to take any Covenant possessions when they 
departed; many were practically destitute when they joined 
new Covenants. Resentment of the Quaesitoris of Duresca still 
thrives in thefilii of Duresca’s former members. 
LOCATION 
Duresca maintains a small way station on the road to 
Santiago de Compestela. The way station, marked with a set of 
silver scales, serves as means for directions to the Covenant. 
Directions can be obtained from the proprietor simply by 
asking. The way station also serves as a source of income. 
Pilgrims on the way to Santiago often spend the night and enjoy 
the shelter and provisions the way station offers, for a reason- 
able price. Groups of Magi and their traveling companions are 
little noticed among the pilgrims, merchants, and knights that 
travel the road to Santiago. 
The Covenant is a half day’s travel north of the road and the 
trail is well marked. Upon entering the valley that contains the 
Covenant, the trail turns to the west and the Covenant walls 


--- Page ---

come into view on the north face of the valley. The original 
structure of Duresca was too small to suit the needs of the 
Quaesitoris of the Iberian Tribunal. They have added to the 
structure, but signs of the original remain. The newer section 
is closer to the entrance of the valley and sprawls up the valley’s 
face. 
INHABITANTS 
The following are the people characters may meet or know 
at Duresca. Unlike Barcelona, these people are in the Covenant 
at most times. If they’re absent, they’re probably in the nearby 
town of Santiago de Compestela. 
Grogs 
The covenfolk of Duresca are a hardy lot. The privileges 
of the Quaesitoris allow the Magi to amass a great deal of wealth 
and the people who serve them benefit from the Magi’s largess. 
The reeve is given a monthly income from the Covenant’s 
treasury, to spend as he or she sees fit. Supplies are purchased 
at local fairs and the needs of the covenfolk are fulfilled. After 
the basic costs of running the Covenant, an average surplus of 
30 marks of silver remains per month. Some of this is given as 
. a bonus to members of the turb who have distinguished 
themselves. The remainder is kept as property of the covenfolk. 
Thls money is used to finance the pilgrimages of covenfolk or 
to sponsor the education of children. Those covenfolk who 
become custodes also have their standard gear supplanted. The 
hpersal of these funds is always decided at the covenfolk’s 
councils, held at the end of every month. Tradition demands 
that all adult covenfolk agree to its use. If anyone objects, no 
money is paid out of the fund. 
The Covenant supports a number of craftsmen. The 
Covenant is the ?ole client of tanners, weavers, smiths, and 
other skilled people. When these artisans require apprentices, 
they often gamer them from the families of covenfolk. When 
no likely candidates exists, craftsmen travel to distant cities to 
contract apprentices. A new apprentice is kept in the old 
portion of the Covenant and is not told the nature of hls masters 
until well ingrained into Covenant life. 
Custodes 
When the Quaesitoris took control of Duresca centuries 
ago they divided the turb into three sections. The largest of 
groups is the New Guard. Of the 75 current custodes, 35 are 
New Guards. New Guards travel with the Quaesitoris when 
they leave the Covenant. Their armor is covered with a white 
surcoat and they bear Latin crosses upon their left breast. 
Though these crosses do not end in the point of a sword, as 
those of the Knights of Santiago do, the distinction is minor and 
disguises the nature of those the Grogs guard. Most of these 
guards know how to ride and mounted patrols often accom- 
pany traveling Magi. 
. _. -- 
.. . 


--- Page ---

The second largest group of custodes is the Home Guard. 
A third of the turb of custodes are members of the Home Guard. 
The Home Guard is charged with the defense of the Covenant 
itself. They man the walls and act as sentries at its gates. Many 
of these guards are older members of the turb, considered one 
step from retirement. The Home Guard is no less vigilant than 
the others and, if anything, their experience and age make them 
more careful in the defense of their homes. The Home Guard 
wear dark blue tunics decorated with the silver scale symbol of 
the Quaesitoris. 
The last group of custodes is the Wizards Guard. These 
custodes are the elite warriors of the turb. They are entrusted 
with the defense of the secluded area of the Covenant, includ- 
ing the House of Justice. The sergeants of the Wizards Guard 
are entrusted with knowledge of the ritual that opens the gate 
to this section of the Covenant. The Wizards Guard wear white 
surcoats with a black circle inscribed upon them. The last 15 
of the custodes are members of the Wizards Guard. 
Companions 
The most important of Duresca’s consortis are those who 
aid the Covenant’s Magi directly, both within and without the 
Covenant proper. 
Ana, a New Guard 
Characteristics: Intelligence 0, Perception (alert) +1, 
Strength (broad shoulders) +1, Stamina (tough) +2, Pres- 
ence (plain) -1, Communication (quiet) -1, Dexterity (ath- 
letic motions) +3, Quickness (quick reflexes) +2 
Age: 22 
Size: 0 
Virtues and Flaws: Valor Passion +1 , Versatile Sleeper +1, 
Long Winded (+3 to Fatigue) +1, Disfigured (battle-scared, -3 
from Presence rolls), Sensitive (chsrespect toward Magi) -1, 
Sheltered Upbringing (raised in Covenant; -3 to social rolls) -2 
Abilities: Speak Mnese (fighting terms) 3, Brawl (when 
insulted) 4, Scan (approachingpeople) 3,Athletics (leapinginto 
saddle) 3, Dodge (swords) 4, Anunal Handhg (horses) 2, 
Drinlnng (volume) 3, Ride (galloping) 3, Hand Axe Attack 
(mounted)4,HandAxeParry(mounted)4,RoundShieldParry 
(defending another) 4 
Confidence: 3 
Reputation: None 
Personality Traits: Brave +2, Loyal +3, Reliable +1, 
Weapons and Armor: 
Ring Mail Hauberk 
Hand Axe Totals First Stnke +5, Attack +9, Damage +12, 
Parry Defense +5 (1 1 Action) 
Round Shield Totals: Parry Defense +7 (13 Action) 
Encumbrance: 3 
Other Combat Totals: Dodge Defense +3 (9 Action), 
Fierce in Defending +1, Talks to Strangers -2 
Soak +9 (15 Action), Fatigue -1 
AZfonso de Suero, Autocrat of Duresca 
Alfonso has become a highly cultured and educated man 
by effort of his own will. He rarely leaves the Covenant but can 
talk intelligently about the affairs of foreign states. Alfonso 
became Autocrat by demonstrating the ability to make guests 
feel comfortable. He is a charming conversationalist and can 
often gain information from guests that would not otherwise be 
revealed to his masters. 
Alfonso is an average man in many ways. Average height, 
average weight, average coloration. He makes up for his 
plainness by dressing at the height of style and by presenting a 
carefully manicured image to the people he meets. As a 
consequence of maintaining this elaborate facade, Alfonso is 
unaware of the masks that other people present. If a person 
appears to be important or powerful, Alfonso believes them to 
be so. 
Alfonso wears a silver pendant that protects his mind from 
unwanted intrusion or influence. It works continuously as a 
mental ward (Rego Mentem Level 25) that must be penetrated 
before any mystical force can affect Alfonso’s thoughts. 


--- Page ---

Alfonso de Suero 
~~ 
~ 
~ 
w!!ziic;/i-I 
CHAPTER FIVE: COVENANTS 
OF IBERIA 
Characteristics: Intelligence (astute) +2, Perception 
(insightful) +1, Strength 0, Stamina (weak lungs) -1, Pres- 
ence (flamboyant) +2, Communication (eloquent) +3, 
Dexterity (indelicate) -1, Quickness (slow) -1 
Age: 42 
Size: 0 
Virtues and Flaws: Educated +1, Magic Item +1, 
Withstand Magic (+6 to Natural Resistance and Soak 
against magical damage) +2, Faerie Enmity -1, Terror (of 
forests) -2, Compulsion (to learn from visitors) -1 
Abilities: Speak Lednese (foreign matters) 5, Scribe 
Leonese (letters) 5, Scribe Latin (information for Magi) 3, 
Charisma (travelers) 4, Charm (Arabs) 3, Folk Ken (pil- 
grims) 3, Debate (politics) 2, Diplomacy (Covenant dis- 
agreements) 4,Drinking(longperiods) 2,Etiquette (guests) 
5, Leadership (Covenant mundane) 4, Humanities (Clas- 
sics) 4, Santiago de Compestela Lore (rumors) 3, Dagger 
Attack (close quarters) 3 
Confidence: 3 
Reputation: Pandering (covenfolk) 1 
Personality Traits: Brave -1, Loyal +2, Friendly +1, 
Weapons and Armor: 
Dagger Totals: First Strike +3, Attack +6, Damage +7 
Encumbrance: 0 
Other Combat Totals: Dodge Defense -1 (5 Action), 
Well-spoken +2 
Soak +3 (9 Action), Fatigue +3 
Dona Galinda de Gracia, 
Hostess of the Silver Scales 
Dona Galinda runs the way station that the Covenant 
owns on the road to Santiago. She took over the task after the 
death of her husband four years ago and maintains the prosper- 
ous business that he helped develop. Her children, five 
daughters and three sons, do most of the inn’s menial chores, 
but the Covenant hires some servants to help her. Galinda is 
a strong, friendly woman, and strives to provide the best 
hospitality for pilgnms traveling to Santiago. Galinda offers 
clean rooms, good food, and fine wines at fair prices, and has 
earned a reputation for hospitality that stretches up and down 
the road to Santiago. She is never satisfied until all her guests 
are completely comfortable. Self-deprecating to a fault, she 
constantly asks what she can do to make guests happier and 
may frustrate visitors who want to be left alone. 
Dona Galinda is fair of complexion with lush, dark hair 
and laughing eyes. She tends toward the stoutness typical of her 
age but maintains a healthy figure. She wears a silver cross 
around her neck, but no other jewelry. She has added a shrine 
to Santiago to the side of the inn, and has put the scallop shell 
symbol of pilgnm to Santiago on the sign above the door. In 
her speech, Galinda frequently refers to the blessings that 
Santiago, Christ, and the Lord have given her. She attributes 
her children, home, and the company of good people to 
Heavenly powers. Galinda’s normal friendliness and hospital- 
ity quickly turns cold if visitors are openly impious. 
Do& Galinda is loyal to her masters at Duresca, and 
tolerant of Magi who visit her inn and ask after the Covenant. 
However, she is constantly tormented by confhct between 
loyalty to her masters, those who provide her with material 
comfort, and loyalty to her faith. Galinda has confessed to the 
local priest and has received absolution for consorting with 
Magi. The priest has so far respected the seal of the confessional 
and has not reported knowledge of the Covenant to his 
superiors. Galinda is prone to exaggerating sins so the priest 
may not fully believe her stories of mystic men and women who 
rule over her. 
Galinda believes she would have fewer troubles if she had 
a husband to look after the inn, while she attended to the needs 
of pilgrims. She regularly attempts to win the favor of kmghts 
and wealthy merchants who travel the road to Santiago and, in 
truth, has much to offer. Many men would marry her for the 
inn alone, but when they learn it is not part of her dowry, they 
lose interest. 
Dona Galinda is a woman of the people. In the evenings 
she entertainsguestswithsongandisnot bashfulabout sharing 
a cup of wine with weary travelers. She enjoys talking with 
people and learning of the places they come from. She keeps 
most troublemakers in line, with a stem voice and harsh glare, 
Dona Galinda de Gracia 
Characteristics: Intelligence (clever) + 1, Perception 
(observant) +1, Strength (hefty) +1, Stamina (healthy) +2, 
Presence (matronly) +3, Communicatioq (pleasant voice) 
+2, Dexterity (blundering) -1, Quickness 0 
Age: 32 
Sue: 0 
Virtues and Flaws: Clear Thinker (+3 to rolls against 
confusion) +1, Well-Known +1, Compulsion (to make 
people welcome) -1, Sensitive (to blasphemy) -1 
Abilities: SpeakLeonese (traveling terms) 5, Charisma 
(inn patrons) 3, Charm (rich men) 5, Folk Ken (pilgrims) 
5, Sing (roadsongs) 4,Brawl (throws) 3, Chirurgy (bruises) 
3, Etiquette (travelers) 4, Drinking (consoling) 3, Diplo- 
macy (drunks) 4, Intimidation (troublemakers) 3, Church 
Lore (blasphemy) 4 
Confidence: 3 
Reputation: Hospitable (travelers) 2 
Personality Traits: Brave +1, Loyal +1, Religious +2, 
Weapons and Armor: None 
Encumbrance: 0 
Other Combat Totals: Dodge Defense +O (6 Action), 
Friendly +2 
Soak +2 (8 Action), Fatigue +2 


--- Page ---

~~~ 
~ 
Baruch, Head Quaesitor 
Characteristics: Intelligence (intuitive) +2, Percep- 
tion (eye for detail) +2, Strength (athletic) +1, Stamina 0, 
Presence (domineering) +1, Communication (loud voice) 
+ 1, Dexterity (awkward) - 1, Quickness 0 
Age: 63 (looks 35) 
Size: 0 
Virtues and Flaws: Quaesitor +1, Strong-Willed (+3 
on will tests) +1, Aptitude (+1 with thoughts and memo- 
ries) +2, Enemies (some Magi resent his power as Duresca's 
leader) -1, Weakness (for poetry) -1, Noncombatant -3, 
Dutybound (to Traditionalist rulings) -1 
Abilities: Speak CataladProvenPl (song lyrics) 5, 
Speak Leonese (rulings) 5, Speak Latin (quotations) 5, 
Scribe Latin (writing rules) 4, Scribe CataladProvenCal 
(narratives) 5, Scribe Leonese (letters) 5, Magic Theory 
(scrolls) 6, Hermes Lore (corruption) 6, Hermes History 
(legal precedents) 5, Parma Magica (Mentem) 4, Penetra- 
tion (Intellego) 4, Search (evidence) 4, Guile (corruption) 
3, Folk Ken (testing reliability) 3, Subterfuge (bluff) 5, 
Pretend (disinterest) 4, Certamen (Ignem) 4, Debate (law) 
4, Concentration (decision making) 4, Bargain (for infor- 
mation) 3, Diplomacy (with Flambeau) 5, Intimidation 
(Flambeau) 4, Intrigue (Iberian politics) 4, Hermetic Law 
(dealingswithmundanes) 5, Iberia Lore (legends) 3, Church 
Lore (heretic hunters) 3 
Confidence: 3 
Reputation: Fair (Quaesitoris's allies) 3, Potentially 
Corrupt (Quaesitoris's opponents) 3 
Personality Traits: Brave +1, Cultured +2, Stem +2, 
Conservative +2 
Techniques and Forms: Creo 8, Intellego 15, Muto 7, 
Perdo 8, Rego 10, Animal 10, Aquam 7, Auram 8, Corporem 
10, Herbam 6, Ignem 8, Imagonem 9, Mentem 20, Terram 
6, Vim 15 
Spell Casting Speed: +O 
Twilight Points: 6 
Effects of Twilight: None 
* Spells Known: 
Shackles of the Mind (ReMe 40) +30 
Spell Focus: A Piece of Brain (+3) 
R: Near, D: YearRerrn, Ritual 
Prevents a specific mental activity or event from occur- 
ring to a person. The subject of the Ritual must be present 
for the entire Ritual. The Magus performing the Ritual 
specifies the mental activity that is curtailed or forgotten. 
Typical applications of the Ritual are to prevent a person 
from remembering a specific occurrence or to prevent 
thoughts leading to undesirable actions. This is one of the 
heavy-handed Quaesitor rituals used to enforce decrees. 
Marking the Golden Circle (ReCo 35) +20 
Spell Focus: A Finger Ring from the Subject (+3) 
R: Special, D: YearRerm Req: Perdo, Ritual 
Marks a circular area that the subject of the Ritual may 
not enter. The subject, and no other, sees the boundaries 
of the circle as a golden line. Blood of the subject is used 
during the Ritual to mark circle boundaries. As the subject's 
blood is used, she need not be in the presence of the caster; 
the blood forms an Arcane Connection. If the subject enters 
the area protected by the Ritual before the spell expires, she 
must make a Stamina stress roll of 6+ or die immediately. 
Those that make the roll still lose one Body Level and are 
subject to intense pain (causing -3 on all rolls and three 
extra Botch rolls while in the restricted area). 
Memory of the Distant Dream (CrMe 20) +28, GiJt of 
Reason (CrMe30) +28,FrostyBreathoftheSpokenLie (InMe 
20, Mastered) +35, Posing the Silent Question (InMe 25, 
Mastered) +35, Peering into the Mortal Mind (InMe 30) +35, 
Aura of Righthl Authority (ReMe 20) +30, Eyes of the Past 
(InIm 25) +24, Invisibility ofthe Standing Wizard (PeIm 15) 
+17, Incantation oftheMilky Eyes (PeCo 20) +18, Lvting the 
Dangling Puppet (ReCo 20) +20, Wind of Mundane Silence 
(PeVi 25) +23 
Wizards Sigil: Surrounding people momentarily feel 
like revealing their deepest secrets 
Weapons and Armor: None 
Encumbrance: 0 
Other Combat Totals: Dodge Defense +O (6 Action), 
Soak +O (6 Action), Fatigue +O 
calling upon the powers of Heavenif necessary. Whena pilgrim Baruch, follower of Guemicus, 
Head iuaesitor o j  Iberia 
or knight gets out of hand she is capable of wrestling him out 
of the inn. 
Magi 
Baruch became the leading Quaesitor of Iberia in 1189 
after the Final Twilight of his predecessor. Baruch inherited a 
v 
Tribunal filled with strife. Its mundane population warred 
sula, were involved in the mundane disputes. The 
There are Seven Ma@ at Duresca, 
Quasitoris. Baruch constantly and Magi of the Order, not just those of the penin- 
is their leader and final arbiter in any decision. He is therefore 
-
-
 
the most important in the place. 
of the time was exacerbated by Baruch's ielative youth. Fortu- 
nately, the support ofBarcelona Covenant andBaruch's gradual 


--- Page ---

experience allowed h m  to make an impact upon Tribunal 
affiirs. Establishing a policy of strict Traditionalism (conserva- 
tive and strict rule interpretation), Baruch began to impose 
heavy penalties upon those who “stretched the Code. He also 
established good relations with individual Magi of various 
Covenants who acted as enforcers for Quaesitor judgement. 
Under Baruch’s guidance, the Quaesitoris of Iberia have be- 
come more strict in their interpretations of the Code, and have 
grown more powerful. 
All the Quaesitoris of Duresca have the Quaesitor Virtue, 
and many Social S U .  Their Intelligence and Perception 
scores tend to be positive, as do their socially oriented Charac- 
teristics, but their physical Characteristics tend to be lacking. 
The Quaesitoris’s Arts range from zero to six, with most spells 
dealing in Intellego Mentem. 
Baruch is not completely the hard-nosed Quaesitor he 
appears to be. Raised and apprenticed in Provenqil, he has 
enjoyed the best of French culture. He looks down upon those 
who seek to destroy mundane civilization and has friends 
among Magi of House Jerbiton. Baruch is known to write 
poetry and is a dignified and pleasant host. Indeed, he favors 
people who appear cultured. 
Other Mani 
The remaining Magi of Duresca represent a dynamic mix 
that makes for sound judgements. While most are Tradition- 
alist in their tendencies, a few younger Magi are Transitionalists 
(progressive thinkers, seelung change in Hermetic Law). The 
Covenant regularly schedules debates about certain points of 
Hermetic Code. Baruch assigns the topic and opposing sides, 
forcing Quaesitoris to argue for ideas they personally oppose. 
This constant reevaluation of values makes the Quaesitoris of 
Duresca more unified in purpose and more consistent in ruling. 
I 
Fortress 
For the layout of the Covenant, see the Duresca map. I 
A 
New Gate - 
An impressive smcture of brick with 
stone towers on either side. The main gates stand open during 
the day but are guarded by vigilant Grogs. This is the gate that 
visitors to the Covenant use. 
B Courtyard-Whenvisitorsstop here they aregreeted 
by servants who make them welcome and who see to their 
needs. Horses are led to the stables and visitors are invited to 
relax in thelush garden that surrounds the courtyard. The 
Autocrat of Duresca first greets visitors and determines their 
business. If visitors are not on urgent business, they are given 
apartments in the guest house until Magi can arrange to see 
them. 
C Stables - 
These large stables hold the best of the 
Covenant’s horses and have plenty of room for mounts of 
visitors as well. A few of the horses are trained to carry Magi. 
The structure is built of brick and is meant to serve as a 
secondary defense if the gate is breached by attackers. The 
second floor of the building stores hay and other feeds for 
animals, and serves as quarters for grooms and stableboys. 


--- Page ---

D Guest House - 
This long building is divided into 
rooms that all open on the garden, which is an extension of the 
surrounding courtyard. There are two floors of rooms. Stairs 
at either end of the building make the second floor accessible. 
Magi's House - 
Here the Magi of Duresca make their 
private rooms and laboratories. Some of the apartments are 
quite lavish, having comfortable parlors outside the Magi's 
sanctum and laboratory facilities. There are also quarters that 
are little more than spartan cells. 
Magi's Gate - 
Only the Magi of the Covenant and 
those they designate are allowed to pass this gate. It is guarded 
by the elite group of custodes at all hours of the day. The gate 
itself must be opened by a special ritual that is taught to Magi 
when they join the Covenant, and to important functionaries 
that earn the Magi's trust. 
House of Justice - This building houses the 
Covenant's libraries, both magical and mundane. As expected, 
the mundane library contains a complete record of the Code of 
Hermes, including all entries to the Peripheral Code. The 
Peripheral Code of Iberia gets special treatment and several 
volumes of commentary, both historical and critical, are in the 
library. The Covenant's council rooms are also in this building 
as are its vis stores, treasury, and tombs. There are small 
workshops for bookmaking and a workroom where the 
Covenant's scribes continually copy materials, either for records 
or for distribution to other Covenants. The courtrooms where 
Duresca holds trials of Magi accused of High or Low crimes 
E 
F 
G 
against the Order are contained in this building. The court- 
rooms are also used when the Quaesitoris call a special 'Tribu- 
nal. 
Great hll- This building serves as a gathering place 
for the covenfolk, custodes, and consortis of the Covenant. 
Evening meals are served here and the space is used for a variety 
of purposes during the day. 
Servant Quarters - 
This two-story building pro- 
vides housing for covenfolk and veteran Grogs and their 
families. Those Companions that live at the Covenant may also 
find quarters here. 
Old Gate - 
This is the original gate to Duresca 
Covenant. It is now only used by members of the Covenant that 
are not Magi. While the gate has decreased in status, it is no less 
guarded than the new gate. Grogs tend to view the duty of 
guarding the old gate as a relaxing break. 
Stables - 
These smaller stables hold the utilitarian 
animals of the Covenant. Draft horses and riding horses used 
for Grog patrols are housed here. The stables are more crowded 
and less clean than the main stables, but the animals are cared 
for just as well. 
Infirmary - 
This building used to be the barracks for 
the Grogs, capable of housing 30 comfortably. Now it serves as 
a place for injured Grogs, allowing them to recuperate from the 
trials of combat. 
H 
I 
J 
K 
L 


--- Page ---

M Grogs’ Barracks - 
This building housed the old 
masters of Duresca. When the Quaesitoris took over and 
expanded the Covenant they moved to new lodgings, leaving 
this building to the Grogs. Where Magi once lived in luxury, 
three or four Grogs now share a single suite. The fine 
furnishings of many rooms still remain. The officers of the turb 
have commandeered the best of the quarters for themselves. 
N 
Workshops - 
One of these buildings used to house 
the covenfolk but their numbers have outgrown it. The old 
smithy has been expanded and other artisans have set up shop 
along the old walls of the Covenant. 
0 Animal Pens - 
Dogs and hawks used for guardmg 
and hunting. 
P Garden - 
The covenfolk raise food here to supple-’ 
ment the diet of the Covenant. 
Q Old Guard Tower - 
Three stories of stone constwci 
tion, pierced with arrow loops and battlemented. War engines 
can be mounted on these towers. 
New Guard Tower - 
Four stories of stone, toppe@. 
with battlements and watch stations. The walls are accessible- 
from the third story. War engines permanently top these. 
towers. 
Wizard’s Guard Tower - 
Four stones of stone, taller 
than the new guard towers. No windows, battlements, or war 
engines. The Magi themselves man these towers during a siege,\ 
at least in theory. 
Covenfo1k‘s:Yard - Many children fill this ax& 
during the day. At night adults come here to talk, sing, and 
dance. Covenfolk also hold an informal council once a month 
to deal with any issues that affect them but not the Magi or the 
, 
. ’ ,  
R 
. a
.
 
S 
T 
‘ 
’ 
rest of the Covenant. 
OUTSIDE RELATIONS 
Most of the mundanetworld does’not know of Duresca: 
The Inn of the Silver Scales is well known along the road to 
Santiago, but its true owners are only known to a handful. The 
Quaesitoris receive frequent visits from members of House 
Mercere, receiving the most recent information about Iberian 
nobility and Church. The Magi have a general knowledge of the 
peninsula’s politics but are, naturally, more informed about 
things in their own region. The local peasantry doesn’t have 
much interaction with the Covenant; the Magi are careful to 
have all transactions mediated by trusted agents. Local peas- 
ants believe the Covenant compound is actually the home of a 
Count Bernaldo. Agents of the Covensint have developed a 
fictitious noble family to appease peasant curiosity, and the 
Magi support this fiction when they must deal with the peas- 
antry. 
The Magi of the Iberian Tribunal all know of Duresca and 
many have traveled there. Duresca’s lesser Magi are also well 
known among Iberia’s Covenants, given the Quaesitoris’s 
constant travels and demands of duty. 
Throughout the Tribunal there are a still few scatteredfilii 
of former Duresca Magi. Some of them hold p d g e s  against the 
Quaesitoris that ousted their masters. A few of these Magi even 
hold fragments of the Duresca scrolls. These fragments impli- 
cate the Quaesitoris in a plan to rule the Order and the world. 
Those that possess this information hide it well, and are subject 
to investigation, based on trumped-up charges, if they begin to 
circulate their knowledge. 
The Magi of Duresca are allied with the Magi of Barcelona, 
for devastating political effect. The Magi of Duresca that travel 
to Tribunals as advisors habitually give their sigils to represen- 
tatives of Barcelona Covenant. This action has given Barcelona 
both the power of a large voting block and the prestige of 
Quaesitoris’s trust. The combination of these factors makes 
Barcelona the-dominant Covenant in the Iberian Tribunal. 
MYSTICAL 
ATTRIBUTES 
Duresca originally had a small supply of vis. When the 
Quaesitoris took control they expanded the Covenant’s range 
of authority. When Duresca came into conflict with other 
Covenants over vis rights, the Quaesitoris would delay negotia- 
tions to resolve matters in Tribunal. When called upon to rule 
a dispute between Duresca and other Covenants, the Tribunal 
usually ruled (and rules) in favor of Duresca. Applying its 
influence, Duresca has gained sizable holdings of vis. 
Duresca’s arcane library is generally good. Holdings of 
magical Arts are at least average, with several above average- 
books. Treatises on Intellego and Mentem describe those Arts 
in particular detail. The Magus Alvarra, one of the Quaesitoris 
to come to Duresca upon discovery of its infamous scrolls, 
recorded her knowledge of Intellego and Mentem to make up 
the majority of the Covenant’s library in those Arts. The seven 
volumes she penned, entitled The Mysteries ofHuman Thought, 
have been copied by the Magi of Duresca and traded with other 
Quaesitoris throughout the Order. Among the spells contained 
in Duresca’s grimoires are several Quaesitor rituals and the 
Covenant’s version of Aegis of the Hearth. 
MUNDANE 
RESOURCES 
The mundane library of Duresca is excellent but the 
volume of its works is limited. As the Quaesitoris adjuhcate all 
Tribunals, they have good records of those meetings’ events. 
Several past members of the Covenant have written commen- 
taries upon Tribunal decisions, relating them to Hermetic law 
and the practices reported from other Tribunals. The most 
famous of these commentaries is the anonymous ~ocw 
Standi. 
This work, whose title translates as “Recognized Position” and 
is oftenusedin court, dates from thelate 11 th century. It isused 
by Transitionalists to further their position of flexible and 
changing interpretations of the Code. The author of Locw 
Standi relates the way the Code of Hemes was interpreted in 
various Tribunals. The author searched Quaesitor records for 
similar cases and recorded the way that each Tribunal ruled 


--- Page ---

those cases. Comments of the Primus of House Guernicus are 
also listed for some cases. The work is a varied tapestry of 
decisions. The author does not advocate a particular position. 
Other works in Duresca’s mundane library include de- 
tailed descriptions of Iberia’s nobility, and accounts of some of 
the land’s history. Descriptions of the mundane world become 
less accurate as they deal with lands further from Duresca, but 
at least offer a good overview of the region. Also included are 
works on the officers and districts of Iberia’s Church. 
OBLIGATIONS 
The Magi of Duresca serve as itinerant judges for several 
villages near the Covenant. For the most part, younger Magi of 
the Covenant bear this obligation. They maintain some secrecy 
about their origins while performing this duty, posing as agents 
of “Count Bernaldo” to maintain legitimacy. The judging of 
village disputes is particularly tricky for young Magi. They 
must judge disputes to ensure both sides are satisfied. If a 
villager is dissatisfied and appeals to his lord or the Bishop, the 
Covenant’s masquerade might be undone. 
In addition to the self-imposed duty of adjudicating local 
mundanes, Magi of Duresca must fulfill their duties as 
Quaesitoris. Each Magus within the Covenant has some time 
taken up with official duties. Elder Magi serve in official 
capacities at Tribunals and spend some time teaching younger 
Magi. Younger Magi, in turn, spend time attending instruction. 
In addition, it falls to younger Magi to travel to distant Cov- 
enants on regular Quaesitor duties. They carry new additions 
to the Peripheral Code and offer official advice on concerns that 
Covenants bring to their attention. These visits are also used 
to investigate Covenants. 
STORY IDEAS FOR 
DURESCA 
Thefiliw of a former Magus of Duresca comes to your 
Covenant and tells you he has a copy of part of the Duresca 
Scrolls. He tries to enlist your aid in exposing the continuing 
plot of the Quaesitoris to control the Order. 
After a dispute with a nearby Covenant is resolved by 
Quaesitoris of Duresca, one of your Covenant’s consortis sees a 
Quaesitor being given something by a member of the neighbor- 
ing Covenant. Could the other Covenant have bought the 
Quaesitoris? The ensuing investigation could cause great 
difficulties for your Covenant and could endanger future 
relations within the Tribunal. Or, perhaps it is your Covenant 
that is accused of bribing the Quaesitoris. Disproving the word 
of a Quaesitor at Tribunal could be difficult. 
Dona Galinda announces her marriage to a strange man. 
The Quaesitoris try to question her about the man and his 
background but she rebukes them as overly suspicious. She 
swears her loyalty to the Covenant (upon the honor of the 
saints) but the Quaesitoris are unconvinced of her fiance’s 
intentions. Dona Galinda has provided many years of loyal 
service, so the Magi are not eager to upset her. The Magi of 
Duresca .offer characters unique opportunity to find out what 
they can about Dona Galinda’s fiance. 
Symbol: A six-pointed star containing the Arabic word for 
Season: Autumn 
Year Founded: A.D. 978 
House Affiliation: None 
Aura: Magic 2 
Members: Terilh of House Jerbiton; Alarcon, Alvar Dawla, 
and ibn-Hudhayl of House Criamon; Ishuah, Adaiah, T e d  
Adan, and Ravas Jugat of House Ex Miscellanea; Abed-nego, 
Yusuf Abdul-Qadir, and others of non-Hermetic status 
wisdom 
Number of Grogs: 75 
Armaments: Standard 
Library Art Scores: Creo 7, AnimAl8, Ignem 7, Intellego 
6, Aquam 4, Imdgonem 6, Muto 10, Auram 4, Mentem 10, 
Perdo 5, Corporem 7, Terram 9, Rego 10, Herbam 7, Vim 7 
Library Ability Scores: Philosophy 3*, Moslem History 4, 
Arabic 4, Fantastic Beast Lore 4, Humanities (literature) 3, 
Military Theory 1, Medicine 3, Hermes History 5, Church Lore 
2, Islam Lore 4 
* Score of 8 for those with Enigmatic Wisdom score of 4+. 
The Covenant of EstAncia-es-Karida was founded during 
the highest point of the Caliphate of C6rdova. The founders of 
the Covenant were a group of four Jerbiton Magi who acquired 
a Roman villa and used it as their home and base of operations 
while visiting the lush cities of Iberia. The Covenant’s founders 
soon became enamored of the culture of al-Andalus. The 
artistic and intellectual achievements of the Caliphate fed their 
hunger for knowledge and experience of humanity’s potential. 
The founders soon sent word of their life and discoveries to 
others of the Order, particularly those of their own House, and 
membership of EstAncia-es-Karida swelled. 
As more Magi frequented the cities of al-Andalus, they 
came in contact with Moslem sorcerers that operated within 
those cities. Initially, the Moslems were guarded in their 
reaction to the Magi. Eventually, some of the sorcerers became 
members of Esthcia-es-Karida and the Order of Hemes. Some 
of them joined House Jerbiton, on the advice of members of that 
House, but most joined the newly-formed House Ex Miscella- 
nea, preferring to preserve their own traditions. 
During the Schism War the Magi of Estincia-es-Karida 
were able to keep themselves distant from main areas of 
conflict. While some Magi of House Flambeau took advantage 
D 
-- 
.- 
- 


--- Page ---

, . .  
* . -  
... 
. 
*
.
.
 . 
3 


--- Page ---

of the confusion, to press attacks on Moslem sorcerers in Iberia, 
the Covenant of EstAncia-es-Kari@ survived scattered attacks 
on its members with the help of improved defenses. 
After the Schism War, the politics of the Iberian Tribunal 
changed dramatically. Followers of Jerbiton within EstAncia- 
es-Karida saw the aftermath of the war as a field of opportunity. 
Some of them set out to found new Covenants further north 
and west, to provide a stable influence for the Tribunal in those 
regions. Their knowledge of mundane ways and slull in dealing 
with Magi and mundanes made the Magi indispensable in the 
Schism’s aftermath, when mundanes were suddenly alerted to 
wizards among them. 
During the period of relative calm that followed the Schism 
War, membership of EstAncia-es-Karida began to change. 
More followers of Criamon traveled to Iberia to talk to and learn 
from the SufE that were becoming prevalent in Moslem lands. 
Several of these Criamon Magi joined the Covenant and 
compiled their writings and those of the Sufi they admired. The 
Criamon Magi largely left the others of the Covenant alone, and 
took over the underground areas of the building, which were 
previously used for storage. The Criamon expanded this 
network of rooms and practiced their enigmatic magic in the 
cool shadows therein. 
The Covenant, and those it supported in the mundane 
world, suffered during the invasions of the Almoravids and 
Almohads in the 12th century. Members away from the 
Covenant were sometimes caught up in the religious fervor that 
swept through the Moslem population, on the heels of the 
invaders. The Magi of EstAncia-es-Karida withdrew into their 
Covenant and began the slow process of reintegrating them- 
selves into the society that formed after the invasions. The new 
Moslem invaders eventually succumbed to the superior culture 
of the region and began to tolerate the influence and presence 
of the Covenant’s Magi. 
EstAncia-es-Karida was the first Covenant to define itself as 
“Roman,” in opposition to the Christian reconquest of the 
peninsula. Their presence in the area, and research into its 
history, made it clear to the Magi of EstAncia-es-Karida that the 
society of southern Iberia formed the remains of the great 
Roman Empire. The different people who ruled the land and 
the language they spoke was unimportant. The structure of 
society and culture of the area was firmly defined in Roman 
times and had changed very little in the centuries since the fall 
of the Empire. This so-called discovery of the “true” Rome in 
the south sparked the claiv of “Reconquista” Magi in the 
north, led by followers of Flambeau, who asserted that Chris- 
tians were the true descendents of Rome, and that the Order 
should be true to its history and support Christian efforts. 
At the same time non-Hermetic Magi were accepted as 
members of EstAncia-es-Karida. Some members of the Sufi sect 
of Islam were interested in sharing their ideas with the Criamon 
Magi, but did not wish to become members of the Order of 
Hermes. The SufE were eventually accepted as “permanent 
guests” of the Covenant. They share the same privileges and 
duties of full members. Some have even sworn to uphold the 
Code of Hermes and have joined House Ex Miscellanea in order 
to safely travel to other Covenants. The Magi of EstAncia-es- 
Karida do not advertise the fact that Sufis are members of their 
Covenant, but do not deny it either. 
LOCATION 
EstAncia-es-Karida is located in the Kingdom of Granada, 
some 60 miles from that country’s capital. It was built around 
an abandoned Roman villa and overlooks the valley that holds 
it. The valley supports groves of olive trees, grape vines, and 
some cotton. There is a small village, halfway down the valley 
from the Covenant, that is the main source of supply for the 
Magi and their minions. The rocky area has been irrigated since 
Roman times and was improved upon by the technology of the 
Arabs. 
INHABITANTS 
As befits their surroundings, the inhabitants of EstAncia- 
es-Karida are a mix of Christian and Moslem, but as most live 
at the Covenant by choice, the groups usually get along. 
Coven folk 
As all Covenants are, EstAncia-es-Karida is occupied and 
maintained by many different covenfolk, who have both Chris- 
tian and Arabic beliefs. These people perform manual labors, 


--- Page ---

Three Samde Custodes of Es tdnciu-es-Kurida 
Mahk of the Red Lions 
Characteristics: Intelligence 0, Perception 0, Strength 
(brawny) +2, Stamina (hearty) +3, Presence (scarred) -1, 
Communication (guttural) -2, Dexterity (evenhanded) +1, 
Quickness (fleet footed).+2 
Age: 20 
Size: 0 
Virtues and Flaws: Stocky (bonus to Strength, added 
above) +l,Long-Winded (+3 toFatiguerolls) +l,Dutybound 
(devout Moslem) -1, Obsessed (proving own turb is the 
best of the three) -1 
Abilities: Speak Arabic (fighting terms) 4, Brawl (other 
Grogs) 2, Scan (other Grogs) 3, Athletics (running) 3, 
Dodge (mounted opponents) 3, Folk Ken (grounds for 
respect) 2, Subterfuge (over other turbs) 4, Chirurgy (mis- 
sile wounds) 2, Short Spear Attack (receiving charge) 4, 
Scimitar Attack (slash) 4, Round Shield Parry (missiles) 4 
Confidence: 3 
Reputation: None 
Personality Traits: Brave +2, Jealous +1, Loyal +2, 
Reliable +1, Arrogant +2 
Weapons and Armor: 
Scale Mail Hauberk 
Short Spear Totals (lh): First Strike +8, Attack +7, 
Scimitar Totals: First Strike +6, Attack +9, Damage +12 
Round Shield Totals: Parry Defense +7 (13 Action) 
Encumbrance: 3 
Other Combat Totals: Dodge Defense +2 (8 Action), 
Damage +9 
Soak +12 (18 Action), Fatigue +O 
Abin of the Golden Hawks 
Characteristics: Intelligence 0, Perception (keen eyed) 
+2, Strength (taut muscles) +2, Stamina (resilient) +2, 
Presence (swarthy) -2, Communication (coarse) -2, Dex- 
terity 0, Quickness 0 
Age: 20 
Size: 0 
Virtues and Flaws: Keen Vision (+3 to sight rolls) +1, 
Long-winded (+3 to Fatigue rolls) +1, Dutybound (devout 
Moslem) -1, Obsessed (proving own turb is the best of the 
three) -1 
Abilities: Speak Arabic (insults) 4, Brawl (other 
Grogs) 3, Scan (targets) 4, Athletics (climb) 3, Dodge 
(missiles) 4, Pretend (ignorance) 2, Subterfuge (against 
other Grogs) 3, Track (rocky terrain) 3, Stealth (rocky 
terrain) 4, Composite Bow Attack (fleeing targets) 4, 
Shortsword Attack (close quarters) 3, Shortsword Parry 
(close quarters) 3 
Confidence: 3 
- 
Reputation: None 
Personality Traits: Brave +2, Jealous +1, Loyal +2, 
Reliable + 1, Arrogant +2 
Weapons and Armor: 
Ring Mail Hauberk 
Composite Bow Totals: Rate 1, Attack +7, Damage +9 
ShortswordTotalsFirstStrike+4,Attack+7,Damage+9, 
Pany Defense +5 (1 1 Action) 
Encumbrance: 1 
Other Combat Totals: Dodge Defense +3 (9 Action), 
Soak +9 (15 Action), Fatigue +1 
Sarin of the Green Horses 
Characteristics: Intelligence 0, Perception (arrogant) -1, 
Strength (powerful biceps) +2, Stamina (enduring> +3, Pres- 
ence (foul smelling) -1, Communication (gun) -1, Dexterity 
(graceful) +2, Quickness (quick reflexes) +2 
Age: 20 
Size: 0 
Virtues and Flaws: Light Sleeper + 1, Hardy Convales- 
cence (+3 to injury recovery rolls) +1, Dutybound (devout 
Muslim) -1, Obsessed (proving own turb is the best of the 
three) -1 
Abilities: Speak Arabic (riding terms) 4, Brawl 
(jumping from mount) 2, Ride .(gallop) 4, Alertness 
(ambushes) 3, Athletics (ride long distances) 3, Dodge 
(mounted) 3, Subterfuge (against other Grogs) 3, Ani- 
mal Handling (horses) 4, Fantastic Beast Lore (great 
mounts) 2, Lance Attack (charging) 4, Scimitar Attack 
(unmounted opponents) 3, Round Shield Parry 
(mounted) 4 
Confidence: 3 
Reputation: None 
Personality Traits: Brave +2, Jealous +1, Loyal +2, 
Weapons and Armor: 
Studded Leather Cuirass 
Lance Totals: First Strike +lo, Attack +8, Damage +14 
Scimitar Totals: First Stnke +7, Attack +9, Damage +11 
Round Shield Totals: Parry Defense +5 (1 1 Action) 
Encumbrance: 1 
Other Combat Totals: Dodge Defense +4 (10 Action), 
Reliable + 1, Arrogant +2 
Soak +5 (11 Action), Fatigue +2 


--- Page ---

those with specialized skills, like glassblowers, being treated 
with higher regard and considered equal to Grogs in their own 
right. 
Custodes 
Estiincia-es-Karida maintains three distinct turbs of Grogs. 
All the Covenant's custodes come from Berber tribes and while 
they are loyal to the Covenant, they have deep rivalries with 
each other. Each band of custodes vies to prove itself the best 
of the Covenant's protectors. The three turbsare the Red Lions, 
Golden Hawks, and Green Horses. These warriors respectively 
provide infantry, archery, and cavalry for the Covenant's 
defense, together providing ample protection against mundane 
aggression. Each turb has roughly 25 members and lodges in 
its own barracks within the Covenant. The secondary respon- 
sibility of the Red Lions is the guarding of the Magi's residence. 
The Golden Hawks have the added responsibility of manning 
the Covenant gate and walls. The Green Horses are responsible 
for the maintenance of all the Covenant's steeds. 
CornDanions 
The Magi of Estiincia-es-Karida largely work exclusively of 
their mundane servants, so consortis are not in high demand at 
the Covenant. However, those that do reside there are very 
important. 
Isalinad a 'Fat ihal, Autocrat of Est uncia-es -Karida 
The Magi of EstAncia-es-Karida leave the mundane run- 
ning of their Covenant in the very capable hands of Isalinad 
a'Fatihal. Sheenjoys herworkandisverygoodatit. Her natural 
charm and courtesy make her liked among covenfolk and 
visitors alike. 
Isalinad a'Fatihal is an educated woman. She reads and 
speaks both her native Arabic and Latin, and is an adequate 
poet. She sings well but has a limited repertoire and limits her 
singing to entertainment for important guests. She is some- 
what knowledgeable of the practices of the Order of Hermes, 
but is a bit out of touch with current events. EstAncia-es-Karida 
has not had many visitors from the Order during her 12-year 
tenure as Autocrat. Still, Isalinad a'Fatihalis a charming hostess 
and asset to her Covenant. 
Those who think Isalinad a'Fatihal nothing more than a 
pleasant woman, with a talent for making others comfortable, 
vastly underestimate her. She constantly oversees the defense 
of the Covenant from infiltration and spying. With the Renun- 
ciation of the Shadow Flambeau (see The Flaming Shadow in 
Chapter Three) she has become even more vigilant. Isalinad 
a'Fatihal can be ruthless if the Covenant is in danger. Woe to 
he who alludes to conspiracy against the Covenant, for Isalinad 
tends to see plots against the Covenant in even the most 
innocent of actions. 
Isalinad a'Fatihal 
Characteristics: Intelligence (thoughtful) + 1 , Percep- 
tion 0, Strength (weak grip) -1, Stamina (persistent) +1, 
Presence (soft eyes) +2, Communication (gentle voice) +2, 
Dexterity (all thumbs) -1, Quickness (slow reflexes) -2 
Age: 38 
Size: 0 
Virtues and Flaws: Arcane b r e  +1, Educated +1, Clear 
Thinker (+3 to confusion rolls) +1, Noncombatant -3 
Abilities: Speak Arabic (introductions) 5, Speak Latin 
(dealing with Magi) 4, Charisma (Grogs) 4, Charm (visi- 
tors) 3, FolkKen (common fears) 3, Sing (performances) 4, 
Diplomacy (Grog conflicts) 4, Etiquette (Arabic) 4, Intimi- 
dation (unruly Grogs) 3, Leadership (covenfolk) 4, Hu- 
manities (poems) 3, Scribe Arabic (poetry) 4, Scribe Latin 
(letters) 3, Hermes Lore (old rumors) 1 
Confidence: 3 
Reputation: Unassuming (Covenant) 1 
Personality Traits: Brave +1, Courteous +2, Good 
Weapons and Armor: None 
Encumbrance: 0 
. 
Other Combat Totals: Dodge Defense -2 (4 Action), 
Soak +1(7 Action), Fatigue +1 
Hostess +2, Watchful +2, Loyal +2 
Magi 
Given that EstAncia-es-Karida belongs to the "Roman" 
school of Iberian Covenan&, there are many Moslem Magi in 
it. Not all belong to the Order of Hermes; some reside there as 
unofficial members of the Order, with virtually all membership 
rights. Houses Ex Miscellanea and Criamon dominate the 
Covenant. 
Tewil Adan, Maps Ex Miscellanea 
Terril Adan is a stocky, balding man who dresses in rich 
brown robes of the Arab style. He learned his magic from a 
hermit who lived near Gibraltar and has a deep understanding 
of the Artof Terram. After becoming a Magus, he joined a small 
Covenant near the Moslem border states of Iberia, where 
Christianity was accepted. Terril's Covenant was overrun by 
demons while he was in the mountains gathering raw vis. He 
wandered through the destruction for several days, gathering - 
what he could, before beginning the trek to the Kingdom of 
Granada and the Covenant of Estiincia-es-Karida. He only 
arrived a short time ago. 
Since coming to the Covenant, Tenil has quickly become 
a motivating force within Estdncia-es-Karida. The destruction 
of his first Covenant galvanized Terril's sentiment against the 
Christian Reconquista. He now workswihn Hermetic politics 


--- Page ---

Terril Adan 
Characteris tics: Intelligence (brilliant) +4, Percep- 
tion (watchful) +1, Strength (strong back) +2, Stamina 
(stocky) +1, Presence (missing teeth) -1, Communica- 
tion (volatile speaker) -2, Dexterity (all-thumbs) -1, 
Quickness (long stride) +1 
Age: 46 
Size: 0 
Virtues and Flaws: Stocky +1, Magical Affinity 
(with Terram) +3, Driving Goal (stop Reconquista) -1, 
Restriction (magic does not work when not touching the 
ground) -2, Flawed Parma (score halved against Creo 
spells) -1, Deep Sleeper (-3 to rolls after waking) -1, 
Uncommon Fear (open sea) -1 
Abilities: Magical Affinity (Terram) 4, Speak Arabic 
(earth terms) 4, Speak Latin (translational terms) 5, Scribe 
Latin (Arab translations) 3, Scribe Arabic (memoirs) 4, 
Magic Theory (creatingmagicitems) 5, Hermeshre (Magi 
in favor of Reconquista) 2, Hemes History (Roman vs. 
Reconquista controversy) 3, Parma Magica (Terram) 2, 
Penetration (Terram) 2, Intimidation (making others side 
with him) 4, Occult Lore (demons) 4, Broadsword Attack 
(Christians) 3, Broadsword Parry (Christians) 3 
Confidence: 3 
Reputation: Firebrand (Iberian Magi) 3 
Personality Traits: Brave +2, Calm +2, Curious +1, 
Talkative -1, Political +1, Patient +1 
Techqua and Forms: Cree 12, Intellego 11, Muto 6, 
Perdo 7, Rego 6, Ammd 10, Aquam 9, A
m
 
6, Cijprem 10, 
Herbam 6, Ignem 8, Imiigonem 8, Mentem 9, Temm 18, Vim 9 
Spell Casting Speed: +1 
Twilight Points: 2 
Effects of Twilight: None 
Spells Known: Circle of Faerie Stone (CrTe 30) +35, 
Stone Tell ofthe Mind that Sits (InTe 30) +34, Ward Against 
FaeriesoftheMountains (ReTe 25) +29, UnseenPorter (ReTe 
20) +29, The Crystal Dart (MuTe 15) +29, Hands ofthe 
GraspingEarth (MuTe 15) +29, StoneoJOneHundredShards 
(CrTe 15) +35, Sense Feet that Tread the Earth (InTe 35) 
+34, Obliteration ofthe Metallic Barrier (PeTe 20) +30, Pit 
the Gaping Earth (PeTe 15) +30 
Wizards Sigil: Rock in his vicinity trembles 
Weapons and Armor: 
Broadsword Totals: First Strike +6, Attack +6, Dam- 
Encumbrance: 0 
Other Combat Totals: Dodge Defense -1 (5 Action), 
. 
age +11, Parry Defense +6 (12 Action) 
Soak +1 (7 Action), Fatigue +1 
to stop all Hermetic aid to Christians, even favoring the aid of 
Moslem armies to preserve their lands and Covenants. Tenil's 
opposition to the Reconquista borders upon irrationality. 
Terril carries a broadsword that he has invested as his 
talisman. In addition to acting as an extension of his touch (for 
the purpose of casting spells), Terril has attuned the sword to 
various enchantments so that it provides a bonus of +4 on spells 
to harm human and animal bodies, and a bonus of +3 to block 
a single attack that he knows of every Round (which is not 
calculated into his Parry score, below). 
A
h
 
Duwlu, Follower of Criumon 
Alvar is the leader of the group of Criamon Magi that 
inhabit the underground area of EstAncia-es-Karida. Alvar is a 
wise and old man who has seen several Twilights and, like 
many of his Criamon fellows, has grown because of them. The 
influence of Sufi thought has been incorporated into his 
personal understanding of the Enigma and his wisdom is 
recognized among his peers. Alvar prohibits the uninvited 
from entering the underground of EstAncia-es-Karida. He also 
dictates the rituals required of those who seek the Criamon 
Magi's counsel. These rituals involve inhaling vapors, bathing, 
and dressing in a ceremonial robe. 
It is rumored that Alvar Dawla is very close to Final 
Twilight and may be murdered by hs compatriots so his ghost 
can be consulted after his passing. There are those who contend 
that this has already happened, that Alvar Dawla's ghost is so 


--- Page ---

Alvar Dawla 
Characteristics: Intelligence (creative) + 1, Perception 
(otherworldly alertness) +2, Strength 0, Stamina 0, Pres- 
ence (relaxing aura) +1, Communication (calm voice) +1, 
Dexterity 0, Quickness 0 
Age: 87 (looks 65) 
Size: 0 
Virtues and Flaws: Magical Affinity (w/ghosts) +1, 
Exceptional Talent (Divination) +4, Free Study (+2 to study 
from vis, but studying from books is halved) +2, Light 
Sleeper + 1, Free Expression + 1, Twilight Points - 1, Blatant 
Gift (-6 to social rolls) - 1, Warped Magic (becomes momen- 
tarily incorporeal) -1, Restriction (magic won’t work out of 
doors) -5, Poor Eyesight (-3 to sight rolls; Dodge affected 
below) -1 
Abilities: Speak Arabic (terms of death) 4, Scribe 
Arabic (wills) 4, Speak Latin (riddles) 5, Scribe Latin 
(inspirational thoughts) 4, Magic Theory (longevity po- 
tions) 7, Hermes Lore (Twilight victims) 4, Hermes History 
(Magi who have attained undead status) 4, Parma Magica 
(Corporem) 2, Magical Affinitywith Ghosts (conversation) 
5, Divination (astrology) 4, Finesse (precision) 3, Concen- 
tration (riddles) 4, Meditation (on the afterlife) 5, Leader- 
ship (Criamon Magi) 3, Enigmatic Wisdom (explaining the 
Enigma) 5, Occult Lore (spirit world) 4 
Confidence: 3 
Reputation: Dead (Magi) 1 
Personality Traits: Brave +1, Mysterious +2, Wise +2, 
Witty +1, Reckless -2 
Techniques and Forms: Creo 9, Intkllego 23, Muto 11, 
Perdo6, Rego 12,AnimA112,Aquam8,Auram8, 
C6rporem 
11, Herbam 9, Ignem 7, ImAgonem 14, Mentem 16, Terram 
9, Vim 12 
Spell Casting Speed: +3 
Twilight Points: 19 
Effects of Twilight: Increased Magic Theory, Increased 
Affinity Ability score, gained Wild Magic Flaw, gained a 
higher Intellego score (twice) 
Spells Known: 
Symbols ofLife’s Cycle (InMe 25) +39 
Spell Focus: A Glass Eye (+2) 
R: Near, D: Conc., Req: Imiigonem 
Discerns the thoughts and feelings of the target and 
presents them as symbolic images, over the target’s head, 
seen by only the caster. The target is not harmed in any way. 
At first, only surface thoughts are presented but as the spell 
continues, the subject’s deep feelings and hidden thoughts 
also appear. All of the thoughts, however, appear as 
symbols and are therefore difficult to interpret. A stress roll 
of Intelligence + Enigmatic Wisdom of 9+ generally allows 
interpretation of symbols, with a Botch implying total 
misinterpretation. If the target is specifically trymg to hide 
certain thoughts or if the thoughts are buried deep in her 
mind, higher rolls are required. 
The Enigma’s Gift (CrVi 30) +2 1, Waking Dream (InMe 
15) +39, Sign of Unfolding Wisdom (MuCo 10) +22, Discern 
the Images of Truth and Falsehood (InIm 25) +37, Eyes ofthe 
Past (InIm 20) +37, Summoning the Distant Images (InIm 
35) +37, Restore the Image Transformed (MuIm 20) +25, 
Perception of the Conflicting Motive (InMe 15) +39, Frosty 
Breath of the Spoken Lie (InMe 20) +39, Whispers Through 
theBlack Gate (InCo 15) +34, Coerce theSpirits oftheNight 
(ReMe 20) +28, Ring ofwarding Against Spirits (ReMe 20) 
+28, Incantation of Summoning the Dead (ReMe 25) +28 
Wizards Sigil: A wisp of smoke 
Weapons and Armor: None 
Encumbrance: 0 
Other Combat Totals: Dodge Defense -3 (3 Action), 
Soak +O (6 Action), Fatigue +O 
powerful that it can continue its previous functions on the earth 
without the assistance or coercion of others. In either case, 
Alvar Dawla appears to have advanced so far toward the Enigma 
that he can no longer communicate in a practical sense. 
Ywuf Abdul-Qadir 
A 
Yusuf is not a member of the Order of Hermes. He is 
instead a Sufi dervish who is staying at the Covenant of 
Estaincia-es-Karida. While here, he enjoys the company of like- 
minded people who are free to discuss philosophy, even 
heretical philosophy. Yusuf follows the tenets of the great Sufi 
mystic, ibn-‘Arabi, who taught that all the universe is but the 
outer shell of God and that it is God’s thoughts and dreams that 
direct the ordering and actions of things. While staying at 
EstAncia-es-Karida,Yusuf 
has beenable to add to the Covenant’s 
libraries. His thoughts on philosophy and literature are highly 
valued by the Covenant’s Magi and by other scholars who stay 
there. 
In return for his valuable writings, Yusuf has been allowed 
to study the Hermetic texts of the Covenant. He has learned a 
small portion of Hermetic theory and has applied it to h 
own 
knowledge of the workings of the world. Yusufs new philoso- 
phy combines ibn-‘Arabi’s views with the practical application 
of Hermetic magic. According to Yusuf, Hermetic magic 
crudely affects Allah‘s dreams, bringing about phenomenal 
results. However, Magi who practice Hermetic magic are, in 
Yusuf s opinion, misdirected, acting against Allah’s conscious 
will. Yusuf believes that a right-minded person, who is in tune 
with Allah’s desires, can produce even greater effects than 
Hermetic Magi. He is still working through the paradox of Magi 
being part of Allah‘s will and dream but acting against Allah’s 


--- Page ---

Yusuf Abdul-Qadir 
Characteristics: Intelligence (creative) +3, Perception 
(insightful) +3, Strength (thin legs) -1, Stamina 0, Presence 
(warm eyes) +2, Communication (expressive) +2, Dexter- 
ity (accident prone) -1, Quickness (weak legs) -2 
Age: 48 
Size: 0 
Virtues and Flaws: Arcane Lore + 1, Driving Goal (fuse 
Hermetic lore and Sufi wisdom) -1, Dutybound (devout 
Moslem) -1, Poor Equipment -1, Over-Confident -2 
Abilities: Speak Arabic (philosophy) 5, Scribe Arabic 
(philosophical theses) 5, Speak Latin (magical debate) 4, 
Hermes Lore (philosophy of magic) 3, Magic Theory (cre- 
ating spells) 3, Meditation (concepts of Hermetic magic) 2, 
Debate (magical philosophies) 5, Club Attack (running 
downhill) 3, Club Pany (downhill) 3, Dodge (mounted 
opponents) 2, Chirurgy (falls) 2, Humanities (Arabic phi- 
losophy) 5 
Confidence: 3 
Reputation: Revolutionary Thinker (Criamon Magi) 2 
Personality Traits: Brave +1, Loyal to Estiincia-es- 
Karida -1, Speaks in Riddles +2, Trusting -2 
Techniques and Forms: Creo 1, Intellego 2, Muto X, 
Perdo X, Rego 3, Anid1 0, Aquam 3, Auram 2, Corporem 
X, Herbam 0, Ignem X, Imiigonem X, Mentem X, Terram 3, 
Vim X 
Arts with an “ X  indicate that Yusuf cannot cast any 
riwgic with that Art. Scores of zero are treated normally. 
Spell Casting Speed: -2 
Twilight Points: 0 
Effects of Twilight: None 
Spells Known: 
Yusuf has learned no Hermetic spells because he 
believes Hermetic spells oppose Allah’s will. He uses only 
Spontaneous magic but has a few advantages. First, Yusuf 
need not use gestures or words to accomplish effects; he 
need only concentrate for a short time (one Round, with no 
penalties for lack of hands or words). Second, the standard 
Spontaneous formula is divided by two in all cases and 
Yusuf does not lose Fatigue for casting spells. 
Wizard‘s Sigil: None 
Weapons and Armor: 
Club Totals (lh): First Strike +3, Attack +5, Damage 
+4, Parry Defense +4 (8 Action) 
Encumbrance: 0 
Other Combat Totals: Dodge Defense +O (6 Action), 
Soak +O (6 Action), Fatigue +O 
will. If he should ever solve this paradox and complete his 
formulation, combining Hermetic magic and Moslem mysti- 
cism, the results may shake the Order and Mythic Europe. 
FORTRESS 
See the Estdnciu-es-Kurida map for the official layout. 
The Covenant of Estiincia-es-Karida is a strong fortress. 
The Magi have had to survive the vagaries of politics among the 
tu@ kingdoms, and the invasions of Moorish armies. The 
complement of Grogs can easily defend the Covenant. The 
structure of the Covenant is not simply a defense, but also an 
expression of the artistic tastes of its members. The walls are 
tall and thick, with a blue border running just under the 
battlements. The walls are whitewashed regularly. Within the 
blue border, the words of an Arabic philosopher are carved and 
marked with a golden hue. The words of the philosopher speak 
of the protection of Allah and the sanctity of the right-thinlung 
and educated. The massive gatehouse on the southern wall is 
constructed in the Arabic style. There, pennons with the 
emblem of the Covenant fly from long poles. 
The interior of the Covenant is even more an expression of 
the luxury that the Magi enjoy. The central area of the 
courtyard is given over to a garden that centers on a simple, 
elegant fountain. On the eastern edge of the garden stands a 
large house that is the quarters for Covenant visitors. Many 
apartments within are assigned to non-Hermetic Magi, who are 
unofficial members of the Covenant. 
Within the central garden is the entrance to the under- 
ground of the Covenant. The entrance to the underground is 
guarded by a marble structure with a gate of bronze bars. Only 
those invited are allowed entrance by the Grog that stands 
sentry at the gate. Even other Covenant Magi are subject to the 
whims and enigmatic requirements of the Criamon who rule 
underground. 
The covenfolklive in two buildings on opposite sides of the 
central garden. Though no decree from the Magi prevents the 
groups from mingling, the servants’ day-to-day duties keep 
them apart. In the northeast comer of the Covenant are housed 
the servants who take care of the needs of the Magi themselves. 
Also here are the cooks and bakers. In the southwest comer are 
housedmore meniallaborers, those who workin the Covenant’s 
olive groves and tend its animals. The artisans who provide 
physical goods for the Covenant also live and work in this area. 
On the western edge of the garden is the Covenant‘s great hall 
where feasts, meetings, and festivals are held. In this building, 
all members of the Covenant gather and mix freely. 


--- Page ---

A 
. . . . . . . . . .  
.
.
 
.... 
I
.
.
.
 
. . .  
. . . . . .  . : .  .. 
0
.
 . 
. 2. 
_*. :. 
*.I. . 
. . . . . . .  
. . .  . . . . .  
I . . . . . . .  
.... 
: 
. . . . . . . . . .  
. . . . . .  
- 
-
5
 . .  ._. 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  
I .  
. . . . .  
. . . . . . . . . . . . .  
...... 
. 
... 
_.. 
r. 
....... 
. .. 
.. 
.... 
. . . .  
. 
. 
k m e  : :. , 1' ..- 18. Cquncil Room 3. :. .... 
. - -: 
-.* Mundane 
Library . . . . . . .  : 
. . . I . .  ....: . , . . . . . .  
I . 
Library 
, 15 
.....** 
;. :- 
*.:* 
-...;*.., \... 
. . .  
9 :- 
. .  
.
.
 
.; j .:. .-*.; 
.. '9' . 
. . . . . .  :.. 
. . .  
'
.
 . 
. .  
. .  
202 
: 
'..a 
:] 
:. :.' 19 
0
.
 
. .  
.
*
.
 
...... 
. . . .  . .  
* . .  * .  , 
. 
~ 
: > .  *. . :.:. 
* 
. 
- .  
".. .:. 
. . . . . . . . .  .... 
........ 
: 
- 
. . . . . . .  
. . .  
..... 
. . . . . . . .  
. 
c . . . . . . . . .  
.. 
.... 
. . .  
........ .
.
.
 
. . . .  . . . . . . . .  
.
.
 . . . . . . .  
. 
.a. 
I . 
.
.
 
.
.
 
3 : . . 
.. 
r.. 
.
.
.
.
 
. - .  
.
-
 
: . . I  
.* , 
.... 
. . . . .  
Guards/ 
... 
. . .  
. .  : . y  . . . .  
*. 
. : e *  
.
t
 
... 
. . . . . . .  
16.. 
. . .  
.
a
.
 
. . . .  . 
.... 
.. : *. 
. 
* 
'.:, : :Gallery: 
. 
:..-'" 
.: 
: . * .  :.: 
. . . . . .  
< 
e .  
I ".I 
.
.
 
. . .  
. . .  
. ._ 
. . . . . . .  
.
.
.
.
 
. . .  
. .  
. . . .  . .  
* 
. .* 
. 
*
.
 
. . . .  
. . . . . . . . . .  
. 
. *  
. . . . . .  
' 'Terhh *. *:. :' . Wizard's Study .. . . .  .. ..: Arm&. . 
.
.
.
 . .:.".. .. ..\ .
.
.
.
 
. . . . . . . . .  
* 
. . . . . . . . . .  
. . . . .  : . . . .  . .'..* * . . 
.' 
.* . 
. . .  
. ;  
. . . . . . .  . . . . .  
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  
. . . .  
... 
. . . . . . .  
.
.
 
: 
: . - .  . 
e . . . . . .  
Key to Wizards House 
The precise layout of the Wizard's House can be found on 
the map of the same name. 
1 - 
This is the main entrance to the Wizards House. It 
usually has two of the Covenant's warriors stationed outside. 
The vaulted ceiling is painted with vivid colors, in beautiful 
geometric designs. 
2 - 
This entrance is used by apprentices and servants of 
the Magi. There are pegs for clothes just inside the door so that 
mud-spattered cloaks and boots are not taken further into the 
tiled hallways. A single guard stands at this door; the duty is 
usually meted out as a minor punishment. 
3 - 
The western entrance to the Wizard's House is used 
mainly by Magi themselves. It leads out to the lab building and 
is utilitarian in character; the only decoration is the Covenant's 
symbol over the doonway. Guards stand here as well. 
4 -The courtyard is a tranquil garden with narrow paths 
winding through the low vegetation. It is difficult to hide here 
but the landscape tends to emphasize privacy, separating 
resting places by some distance. 
5 - 
In the center of the courtyard is a fountain. More 
elaborate than the one in the garden outside, this fountain also 
has magical properties. The spring that feeds it provides up to 
12 pawns of Iagonem vis per year. The Magi of EstAncia-es- 
Karida only collect four pawns and the fountain allows them to 
I
'
 
. 
.. 
* 
. .  
. .  
.
.
 
I
.
 
. ,  
.
.
 
. . . . . .  
. .  
.
*
 
.. 
* * *  - .  
; * : . 
. :. ... 
5 . > 
.' 
. .  
. . . .  
... : ... 
. . .  
. . .  
e: -. . 
. . .  
. 
' e :  
:. . I:. 
.... ... 
. . . .  
...... 
. .  
. *  
. . . . e  
.... . .# 
.
.
 
..... 
. . . .  
..... 
. .  
view any place inside the Covenant or within one mile of its 
walls. The Magi believe that more intensive harvesting would 
dampen the fountain's powers. 
6 - 
The covered walkways around the courtyard are a 
favorite place of the Magi. They often stroll here among the 
shadows of columns that separate the cloisters from the court- 
yard. Much of the Covenant's extra-council politicking takes 
place in this area. 
7 - 
The sanctum of Ravas Judat. 
8 - 
The sanctum of Terril Adan. 
9 - 
The sanctum of Ishuah. 
10 - 
The sanctum of Adaiah. 
11 - 
The Covenant's treasurnarded by a locked iron 
door, holds both the silver and the raw vis of the Covenant. 
Terah holds one key to the treasury and Alvar Dawla holds the 
other. 
12 - 
These smaller rooms house the apprentices, some- 
times two or three to a room. The rooms are also used to house 
non-Hermetic guests of the Covenant who want easy access to 
Magi of the Covenant. 
13 - 
This chamber holds weapons for those guards who 
watch the study and gallery for unwanted intruders. It also 
serves as a casual lounge for guards who linger in the house 
when off duty. 
14 - 
The labs and sanctum of Terah. Terah is the only 
Magus with personal labs in the house. Other Magi use the 
laboratory building near the house. 


--- Page ---

15 -A small chamber for the guards that watch the stairs 
from the western entrance. 
16 - 
This gallery holds many fine pieces of artwork, 
reflecting the tastes of past and present members of the Cov- 
enant. There are few works depicting men or animals, in 
deference to the largely Moslem population of the Covenant. 
The Covenant has a good collection of ceramics and the hall, 
with complex arabesques lining the walls, is a work of art itself. 
17 - 
A balcony surrounds the courtyard and looks down 
upon the restful garden. 
18 - 
Council meetings are held approximately every 
month, less often if Magi do not have pressing business. Two 
guards are stationed outside this room and only Magi of the 
Covenant (including those non-Hermetic wizards that are 
permanent “guests”) may enter this room or those beyond. 
19 -The mundane library of the Covenant holds signifi- 
cant works of philosophy and literature. One of the most 
valuable books is a copy of the Koran, with fine calligraphy and 
an engraved leather binhg. 
20 - 
The arcane library of the Covenant is fairly average 
for a Covenant of its size. At first the library looks significantly 
larger than you would expect but many of the texts within are 
duplicated. The Magi have gone to great lengths to translate 
Hermetic Latin tkxts into Arabic so knowledge might be shared 
with non-Hermetic friends. 
~ 
r
-
I
 
CHAPTER FIVE: COVENANTS OF IBERIA 
21 - 
The wizards study is another favorite gathering 
place of members of EstAncia-es-Karida. While Magi are often 
found in the cloisters during the day, the relaxing evening 
hours may find up to half a dozen here, engrossed in conversa- 
tion. 
Key to the Underground 
For thelayout of this area, see The Underground ofEstcincia- 
es-Karida map. 
1 - 
The entry to the underground is stepped and tiled in 
arabesque patterns. Niches in the walls hold small lamps that 
throw an eerie light on the complex patterns of de. 
2 -The central room of the underground is lit by several 
chandeliers. Its ceiling is vaulted and painted to resemble the 
night sky. Petitioners to the Criamon Magi gather here while 
waiting for an audience. 
3 - 
The sanctum of Alarcbn. 
4 - 
The sanctum of ibn-Hudhayl. 
5 - 
The sanctum of Alvar Dawla. 
6 - 
Petitioners to the Criamon Magi are presented to the 
Magiin thischamber. TheMagimayanswerpetitionsorretreat 
to the mausoleum to hcuss weightier matters. 
7 -This room holds the remains of many Magi who have 
dled in EstAncia-es-Karida. The Criamon Magi sometimes 
consult the ghosts of the dead - 
few have received Christian 
burial - 
for advice on matters concerning the Covenant or its 
allies. 
8 - 
The walls of the Rooms of Wisdom are covered in 
abstract, geometrical designs. Those who seek self-hcovery 
and desire to confront their inner selves are led into this area’s 
halls, where it is believed mental projections are more intense. 
9 - 
Because they.rely on ritual for many of their studies 
and consultations, the Magi of the underground keep a small 
portion of the Covenant’s vis for easy access. 
10 - 
Books in this library are not divided according to 
mundane or mystical topics. There seems to be no pattern to 
the shelving of materials. The Magi of the underground 
purposefully keep texts disorganized, allowing their intuition 
to guide them to works they need. 
11 - 
Some ritual materials, as well as food and water, are 
stored here. 
12 - 
Petitioners to the Magi are first led into this room 
where they are required to change into ritual robes. 
13 - 
A rectangular wooden chamber is located above a 
trough on the west wall. The trough can hold heated rocks. The 
chamber allows steam from the trough to circulate and cleanse 
the breath of petitioners before bathing. 
14 -A large stone bath dominates this chamber. An odd 
blue-green light reflects off the water and gives the room an 
otherworldly atmosphere. Thick towels are provided for 
petitioners. 


--- Page ---

OUTSIDE RELATIONS 
The Covenant of EstAricia-es-Karida maintains good rela- 
tions with the Moslem nobility that rules the land near the 
Covenant. Some of the Covenant’s members have traveled to 
Seville, the capital of the Almohad empire, and are known in 
that city. The fanatical Almohads, however, do not approve of 
sorcery, so the Covenant’s ties with them have been tense. The 
less orthodox rulers of Andalusia, those of the Kingdom of 
Granada, view the Covenant as a great asset within their lands. 
Moslem nobles are frequent visitors to the Covenant and 
consult the Magi on affairs of state. Though the Order of 
Hemes prohibits Magi from interfering in the affairs of mor- 
tals, Esuncia-es-Karida’s Magi truly enjoy the company of the 
educated nobility, and keep their discussions couched in very 
general terms to avoid problems with the Quaesitoris. 
Among their southern Iberian peers, the Magi of EstAncia- 
es-Karida are seen as leaders in Tribunal politics. However, 
their “Roman” stance has earned them the enmity of many 
members of House Flambeau. In spite of their somewhat 
militant stance, Magi of EstAncia-es-Karida are on the forefront 
of peace efforts between Hermetic and non-Hermetic Magi. By 
providing an environment where non-Hermetic sorcerers can 
study and share their knowledge without fear, EstAncia-es- 
Karida may provide a great service to the Order and its future. 
OBLIGATIONS 
In order to keep their fortress and lands, the Magi of 
Estincia-es-Karida make certain concessions to the mortals 
that rule their land. Every year a delegation of local nobles 
comes to the Covenant and stays for several weeks. At some 
point during this stay, the nobles are invited into the under- 
ground by the Criamon Magi who live there. Once purified, 
each member of the delegation is allowed to present one 
question to the enigmatic Magi. The Magi in turn are bound to 
respond truthfully to questions. The usefulness of this truth, 
however, is sometimes in doubt as the followers of Criamon 
rarely answer questions directly. They may provide truths 
related to the question, or perhaps provide answers to ques- 
tions even more important than that asked. Moslem nobility 
must find some value in these truths for they return to the 
Covenant every year. 
STORY IDEAS 
FOR 
ESTANCIAHESHKARIDA 
When traveling through the Kingdom of Granada, the 
character are stopped by representatives from the Covenant of 
EstAncia-es-Karida. They invite the characters to spend the day 
and evening within the Covenant. While there, the characters 
are grilled about information regarding their Covenant. The 
Magi of EstAncia-es-Karida seek to know their current standing 
in the Order by comparing themselves to a more “ordinary” 
Covenant. Or, the Magi of EstAncia-es-Kanda may want 
something from the characters’ Covenant. . . 
Representatives of EstAncia-es-Karida visit the charac- 
ters’ Covenant. Ostensibly, they are there to warn of an increase 
in banditry on the road to Murcia. While visiting, however, the 
Magi snoop about, asking puzzling questions. They are in fact 
searching for any covenfolk or Magi who are sympathetic to the 
“Roman” movement and offer those people membership at 
EstAncia-es-Karida. 
EstAncia-es-Karida brings a great Sufi mystic to Tribunal 
and attempts to have him recognized as a Magus of the Order. 
Flambeau Magi object to the Moslemsorcerer and may attempt 
to kill him. The Covenant asks the characters for help in 
protecting thevisitor and ingetting their petitionrecognizedby 
the Tribunal. 


--- Page ---

--I 
CHAPTER FIVE: COVENANTS OF IBERIA 
Symbol: An hourglass within a pentagram 
Season: Autumn 
Year Founded: A.D. 1014 
House Affiliation: Flambeau 
Aura: Magic 3 
Members: Rasus, Tordus, Relegare, Flagrare, Dalum, 
Number of Grogs: 30 
Armaments: Standard 
Library Art Scores: Creo 15,Anima16, Ignem 17, Intellego 
8, Aquam 6, Imdgonem 7, Muto 10, Auram 10, Mentem 11, 
Perdo 17, Corporem 14, Terram 13, Rego 14, Herbam 9, Vim 
15 
Library Ability Scores: Humanities (philosophy) 2, Ge- 
ometry 3, Hermes History 2, Hermes Lore 3, Dragon Lore 5, 
Occult Lore 6, Medlcine 3, Legend Lore 2, Church Lore 1 
Note: The information provided here is applicable before the 
rise of the Shadow Flambeau (see The Flaming Shadow, in 
Chapter Three), assuming you integrate that Saga element into 
your Iberian stories. 
Before the Schism War the area of Iberia known as Galicia 
had been dominated by House Diedne. Once the Schism War 
was ended, the region drew followers of other Hermetic Houses. 
T h  time also coincided with the Kingdom of Leon’s push 
southward, in an attempt to reclaim lands previously con- 
quered by the Arabs. Ledn even aided those who settled on its 
southern frontier, granting expansive privileges in return for 
protection against constant raiding from the south. All of these 
factors attracted members of House Flambeau to the region. 
The founders of Jaferiya, half a dozen followers of Flam- 
beau, tookadvantage of the Kingdom of Leon’s offer. The funds 
they had gathered from the spoils of the Schism War allowed 
them to finance the construction of a castle on the site of a villa, 
and to hire their initial turb of Grogs. The advantages the Magi 
received from the kings of Leon allowed the Covenant to 
prosper as additional fundingwas devoted to improvements on 
the Covenant. If fate had not intervened, the Covenant of 
Jaferiya would surely have grown to become one of the finest 
in Iberia, if not the Order. 
The ruin of Jaferiya was initiated in 1135 with the arrival 
of Rasus, a young Magus who had been wandering Mythic 
Europe after finishing his apprenticeship in the Greater Alps. 
Rasus quickly made a name for himself in the Covenant by 
leading a raid against the stronghold of an Islamic sorcerer. 
Rasus was successful in garnering wealth, magical artifacts, and 
some stores of raw vis. Indeed, he became the favored Magus 
of Jaferiya’s leaders. He recruited other young followers of 
Flambeau and the membership of Jaferiya swelled. At its 
highest point, Jaferiya boasted 13 followers of Flambeau, four 
of Tremere, and two of Tytalus. Shortly thereafter, however, 
the older Magi of Jaferiya began to die or slip into Twilight 
Lapho, Metron, and Detur, all of House Flambeau 
(never a peaceful affair for Magi of Flambeau). It was then that 
Rasus solidified his leadership of the Covenant and began to 
direct its affairs. 
Plagued by demons, Rasus had long ago bargained with 
them to escape their torment. As he rose in power over Jaferiya, 
Rasus’s curse began to affect the Covenant as well. Likeso many 
tempted by Hell, he thought his power and will could withstand 
the machinations of the Dark One. The younger Magi of 
Jaferiya fell easily under Hell’s sway and it was not long before 
the Covenant was given wholly over to diabolical Magi. By this 
time, the membership of the Covenant had dropped dramati- 
cally. Many of its members died mysteriously within its walls 
and many others fell during Moorish raids. 
LOCATION 
Jaferiya is located near the village of Taniimes. The village 
arose around the Covenant during Leon’s southern expansion, 
relying on the Magi within for protection. The village is a small 
agrarian community, holding fewer than 20 families. They 
subsist on the few fields of barley and wheat they grow, and on 
the proceeds and products of their cattle herds. The country- 
side is bare and unforgiving with few trees to relieve the bleak, 
rocky plains. The families keep their homes gathered closely 
together. Their houses are constructed of timbers and plastered 
with thick layers of mud. The scars of many fires can be seen 
on the village buildings. The place’s small church seems to have 
the fewest of these scars but, on closer examination, merely 
benefits from more frequent whitewashes. 
The village does not have a priest of its own. A confessor 
travels through the area every few months to hear the confes- 
sions of the populace. He tends to avoid the place, though, 
visiting only three or four times a year. The people are relatively 
pious and visit the small church often to pray for protection and 
health. 
The village sits in a precarious position. The villagers are 
deathly afraid of the Covenant and its members. At the same 
time, they rely upon the Magi and their servants for protection 
from raids by the Moors. The villagers know they can never 
report on their diabolic masters. If there are devils within the 
Covenant, the people feel they are the devils of Tanames too, 
and that they protect the people from Moorish devils and 
raiders. 
’ 
A few of the village’s more independent people express 
defiance of Jaferiya’s Magi. They talk about talung their flocks 
and moving north to the safety of the mountains, on the other 
side of the Duero river. However, the people who talk of such 
things are few and none do more than talk. 
The road out of Tanimes winds up a hill towards the castle 
that is the Covenant ofJaferiya. The roadapproaches the edfice 
from the north and faces a stark wall of brick, with stone towers 
standing sentinel. The dusky red of the brick is reminiscent of 
the mountain sunset behind the castle, while the pale stone of 


--- Page ---

A 
the towers stands in stark relief. A traveler to Jaferiya circles the 
castle to the left, following the road toward the gate. As you 
round the comer, the first thing to strike you is the tower in the 
most eastern portion of the castle. Here the regular, even 
appearance of the walls and towers is interrupted by a structure 
that stands half in ruins. On closer examination it is apparent 
that the top portion of the tower, nearly one third its original 
height, has been twisted by the force of an explosion. The sooty 
signature of flame still clings to the rocks and the tower seems 
to cant wildly over the road. 
INHABITANTS 
Although many inhabitants of Jaferiya were driven from 
the Covenant by the incursion of the Infernal, many remained. 
They were either corrupted by Hell or subjected to its will, 
forced to remain and serve those who serve the Devil directly. 
Coven folk 
The few covenfolk that provide for the day-to-day running 
of Jaferiya are, if anything, more pathetic than the Covenant’s 
Manuel, A Grog of Jaferiya 
Characteristics: Intelligence (thick) -1, Perception 
(blundering) -1, Strength (thin build) -1, Stamina (resil- 
ient) +2, Presence (greasy) -2, Communication (inarticu- 
late) -2, Dexterity (jittery) +3, Quickness (panicstruck) +2 
Age: 22 
Sue: 0 
Virtues and Flaws: Enduring Constitution (+3 to 
resist pain, wound penalties reduced by one) + 1, Tough (+3 
to Soak; added below) +1, Criminal Brand (considered a 
diabolist) -1, Compulsion (physical delights) -1, Hired 
Sword -1 
Abilities: Speak Leonese (curses) 3, Brawl (fighting 
over objects) 4, Alertness (demons) 3, Athletics (running) 
3, Dodge (missiles) 5, Pretend (being awake) 4, Survival 
(hills) 3, Track (escaped covenfolk) 2, Stealth (hiding from 
masters) 4, Drinking (huge amounts) 4, Legend Lore 
(demons) 1, Short Spear Attack (chasing victim) 3, Round 
Shield Parry (claw attacks) 3 
Confidence: 0 
Reputation: None 
Personality Traits: Brave -2, Loyal -2, Reliable -1, 
Sleazy +2, Resigned + 1 
Weapons and Armor: 
Leather Hauberk 
Short Spear Totals (lh): First Strike +lo, Attack +8, 
Round Shield Totals: Parry Defense +6 (12 Action) 
Encumbrance: 0 
Other Combat Totals: Dodge Defense +7 (13 Action), 
Damage +8 
Soak +8 (14 Action), Fatigue +2 
Ferdinand Manet 
Characteristics: Intelligence (astute) + 1, Percep- 
tion (alert) +2, Strength (flabby muscles) -2, Stamina 
(obese) -2, Presence (multiple chins) -1, Communica- 
tion (pandering) +1, Dexterity (fat fingered) -1, Quick- 
ness (lumbering) -3 
Age: 25 
Size: +1 
Virtues and Flaws: Keen Vision (+3 to vision rolls) +1, 
Good Characteristic (Communication) +1, Wealth +4, 
Obese (accounted for below) -1, Obsessed (with food) -1, 
Uncommon Fear (of going hungry) -1, Fury (set offby slow 
or poor food preparation; 9+ on a stress die to resist, +3 on 
Damage, -1 on all other rolls, Short-Term Fatigue roll every 
Round) -3 
Abilities: SpeakLeonese (food terms) 5, ScribeLeonese 
(recipes) 4, Search (food) 3, Guile (lying to masters) 4, Folk 
Ken (fears) 3, Drinking (without getting drunk) 4, Leader- 
ship (kitchenstaff) 4, Craft Snacks (mutton) 4, Knife Attack 
(inanimate objects) 2, Subterfuge (recognizing plots) 3 
Confidence: 3 
Reputation: Grotesque (covenfolk) 1 
Personality Traits: Brave -1, Loyal -1, Gluttonous +3, 
Weapons and Armor: 
Knife Totals: First Strike +0, Attack +5, Damage +2 
Encumbrance: 0 
Other Combat Totals: Dodge Defense -3 (3 Action), 
Body Levels: OK, O/O, -1, -3, -5, Incapacitated 
Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, -1, -3, -5, Unconscious 
Sinful +2 
Soak -2 (4 Action), Fatigue -5 
Grogs (see below). The covenfolk live in fear of their masters. 
Most covenfolk believe they are cursed and deserve no better 
than to work for such brutal lords. They feel God has 
abandoned them and have lost hope for salvation. Some of 
Jaferiya’s Magi have experimented with animating corpses to 
act as servants. The experiments have not been greatly success- 
ful, but their effects on morale have been devastating; now the 
covenfolk know that not even death will release them. 
Grogs 
The Grogs that remain at Jaferiya are a particularly sorry 
lot. They fulfill the basic duties expectedof their profession, but 
only out of fear for the Magi, having almost no loyalty to the 
Covenant. The Magi, with their demonic connections, provide 
the kinds of rewards that appease the base folk of the turb, so 
those that remain do not desert the Covenant. Most of the 
Grogs’ off-duty time is spent drinlung, gambling, and brawling. 
The Grogs occasionally exploit their positions to bully villagers 
but are not usually allowed to leave the Covenant. 


--- Page ---

In general the Grogs are disorganized and do not fight 
cohesively. Their morale is very poor. 
Companions 
There are very few Companions operating within or for the 
Magi of Jaferiya. Most abandoned the Covenant when signs of 
the Infernal became obvious, to pursue their own lives else- 
where. Those consortis that remain are under the direct control 
of the Magi. 
Ferdinand Munet, Autocrut of Juferiyu 
Ferdinand Manet has been charged with daily Covenant 
operations. His work grows easier as the Covenant slides into 
depravity. No longer does Ferdinand need to worry about 
maintenance of the grounds or the livelihood of the covenfolk. 
He is free to explore his own desires. Ferdinand has succumbed 
to the sin of gluttony. Of the many factors required for the 
efficient running of a Covenant, Ferdinand concerns himself 
primarily with food. He rules the kitchen staff tyrannically, 
constantly demanding more succulent delicacies and more 
surprising presentations. Ferdinand partakes of his primary 
pleasure with gusto. Those watching him eat may be fascinated 
or repulsed, depending on their proclivities. For Ferdinand, 
food is the goal of life and the highest of achievements. When 
talking to visitors he always uses idioms that refer to food and 
foodstuffs (“upple of my eye,” “feeling my outs,” “gentle as u 
lamb”), and orders his world around meals (“ujter lunch,” 
%efore dinner, ” “during breukju t ”) . 
Due to his position in the Covenant, Ferdinand has 
accumulated a great deal of personal wealth. He dresses in 
ostentatious and elaborate clothing, always having at least two 
servants nearby to carry out his every whim. A large portion of 
his wealth is devoted to acquiring golden food services. He has 
a large collection of goblets, plates, knives and other imple- 
ments adorned or made entirely of gold. Ferdmnd believes 
such settings improve the taste of his food. The Magi allow him 
this extravagance because worldly matters do not concern 
them. They also enjoy watching the fat man squirm when they 
casually destroy things he values. 
Although Ferdinand may seem a ridiculous figure on first 
glance, he is in no way incompetent or unintelligent. He allows 
visitors to retain their first impression of him to better observe 
their plans, and is perceptive and ddigent in rooting out threats 
posed to his masters. 
. 
Magi 
The Magi of Jaferiya, under Rasus, are all much younger 
than their leader. Some of them are even his ownjlii. Most of 
the lesser Magi are active diabolists. (Rasus believes he has not 
fallen under Hell’s way and does not participate in overtly 
diabolical activities.) Active diabolical Magi believe Rasus 
. knows of and condones their activities, but none of them 
discuss their activities with their leader. On the other hand, 


--- Page ---

A 
Rasus 
Characteristics: Intelligence (pragmatic) +4, Per- 
ception (probing) +2, Strength (massive chest) +1, 
Stamina (durable) +3, Presence (domineering) - 1, Com- 
munication 0, Dexterity (steady hand) +1, Quickness 
(surefooted) +1 
Age: 94 (looks 58) 
Size: 0 
Virtues and Flaws: Magical Affinity (Perdo) +4, Pierc- 
ing Gaze +2, Strong-Willed (+3 to will rolls) +1, Demon 
Plagued -4, Driving Goal (destroy Moors) -1 
Abilities: Speak Latin (terms of destruction) 5, Speak 
Arabic (threats) 5, Scribe Latin (contracts) 5, Magic Theory 
(inventing spells) 7, Hemes Lore (diabolic Magi) 4, Hemes 
History (Wizards Wars) 5,ParmaMagica (Creo) 6, Magical 
Affinity (Perdo) 5, Penetration (Perdo) 5, Alertness (assas- 
sins) 3, Dodge (blunt weapons) 3, Pretend (ignorance of 
diabolism) 4, Subterfuge (Infernal hierarchy) 5, Certdmen 
(Creo) 6, Concentration (contract terms) 3, Meditation 
(Perdo) 4, Bargain (with demons) 5, Intimidation (Flam- 
beau Magi) 4, Leadership (Flambeau Magi) 5, Intrigue 
(underlings) 4, Occult Lore (Infernal deceptions) 5, 
Shortsword Attack (striking from behind) 4, Shortsword 
Parry (Moslem attackers) 4 
Confidence: 3 
Reputation: Diabolist (Magi) 4, after rise of Shadow 
Flambeau 
Personality Traits: Brave +2, Proud +3, Distracted +1, 
Stem +2 
Techniques and Forms: Creo 20, Intellego 16, 
Muto 20, Perdo 28, Rego 18, Animal 10, Aquam 10, 
Auram 15, C6rporem 20, Herbam 10, Ignem 28, 
Imagonem 14, Mentem 14, Terram 10, Vim 30 
Spell Casting Speed: +1 
Twilight Points: 10 
Effects of Twilight: None 
Spells Known: 
Bind the Sewant ofHell (ReVi 50) +51 
Spell Focus: The Rigid Joint of a Demon (+4) . 
R: Near D: SudYear, Mastered 
Prevents a demon whose Infernal Might is less than a 
simple die + Level of the spell (50) from moving. The spell 
also prevents the use of any demonic abilities if the demon’s 
Might is less than half the die + Level total of the spell. The 
spell does not prevent the normal speech of a demon, which 
is often its greatest weapon. 
Ball ofAbysmal Flame (CrIg30) +5 1 Mastered, Wizard‘s 
Eclipse (PeIg 30) +64, Wind of Mundane Silence (PeVi 40) 
+66 Mastered, Demon’s Eternal Oblivion (PeVi 65) +66 
Mastered, Circular Ward Against Demons (ReVi 60) +51 
Mastered, Pilum ofFire (CrIg 20) +5 1 Mastered, TheFalcon’s 
Hood (PeAn 20) +46, Break the Oncoming Wave (PeAq 20) 
+46, ThiefoftheStolenBreath (PeAu 10) +51 Mastered, Grip 
ofthe Choking Hand (PeCo 10) +56 Mastered, Dust to Dust 
(PeCo 15) +56, Invisibility ofthestanding Wizard (PeIm 15) 
+50 Mastered, Passion’s Lost Feeling (PeMe 20) +50 Mas- 
tered, Rusted Decay of Ten Score Years (PeTe 15) +46 
Wizard’s Sigil: His skin ages temporarily 
Weapons and Armor: 
Staff Totals: First Strike +7, Attack +9, Damage +9, 
Parry Defense +6 (12 Action) 
Encumbrance: 0 
Other Combat Totals: Dodge Defense +4 (10 Action), 
Soak +3 (9 Action), Fatigue +3 
some of the Magi who have recently become diabolists believe 
Rasus holds special rituals that only the most worthy and loyal 
are allowed to attend. 
The lesser Magi of Jaferiya are typical followers of Flam- 
beau. While a few follow Rasus’s devotion to the art of 
destruction, most prefer power in flame. As a group the Magi 
are brash and headstrong, believing they can defeat any chal- 
lengers. The Flambeau playfully test each other in contests of 
magic. The countryside and people of Tamlmes suffer more 
from these contests than Rasus’s minions do. The lesser Magi 
also compete for the favor of the demons they serve; each is 
willing to go to greater depths if it means an advantage over 
competitors. In spite of this constant rivalry, Jaferiya’s band of 
Magi is fairly tightknit. 
Rasus, follower of Flambeau 
The leader of the Magi ofJaferiya is Rasus,filius of the Arch 
Mage Karandos, and specialist in the Art of Perdo. He is a dark, 
brooding man with a piercing stare. His hair runs to grey on the 
ends but otherwise is a rich brown. Rasus is massive, present- 
ing a formidable figure. He is civil with guests but often seems 
preoccupied. He does not answer questions of a personal 
nature and few ask them of him. 
Rasus is plagued by demons and began dealing with them 
some time ago to gain relief from their torment. The demons 
that torment him must be able to survive the threat of his magic. 
The demons that have survived his attacks are among the most 
powerful and subtle in Hell. When one of them finally wins 
Rasus’s soul, the Magus will be elevated into the ranks of 
devilkind. 
Rasus controls the activities ofJaferiya’s Magi with an iron 
will. He allows them to torment localvillagers, and to vent their 
passions while close to home, but only allows those he consid- 
ers trustworthy to stray far from the Covenant without super- 
vision. Rasus’s ultimate goal, the reason he risks his immortal 
soul in dealings with demons, is the complete elimination of the 
Islamic peoples. He has cultivated relationships with the 
leaders of the Reconquista and supports them as much as he can 
without alerting the Quaesitoris (at least until revealed as a 
member of the Shadow Flambeau). 
.- 


--- Page ---

Metron 
Characteristics: Intelligence (wily) +2, Perception 
(Cautious) +1, Strength (strong gnp) +1, Stamina 0, Pres- 
ence (bad breath) -1, Communication (surly) -1, Dexterity 
(capable athlete) +1, Quickness (slow reactions) -1 
Age: 31 
Size: 0 
Virtues and Flaws: Magical A f h t y  (Ipem).+3, Keen 
Vision (+3 to vision rolls) +1, Enduring Constitution (+3 to 
resist pain, wound penalties reduced by one) +1, Infamous 
Master -1 (after rise of Shadow Flambeau), Over-Confident -2, 
Warped Magic (creates a temporary Infernal Aura of one for 
every 20 Levels of spell) -1 
Abilities: Speak Leonese (lies) 4, Speak Latin (threats) 
5, Scribe Latin (orders) 3, Scribe Leonese (letters) 4, Magic 
Theory (potions) 5,HermesLore (diabolistMagi) 2,Hermes 
History (laws) 2, ParmaMagica (Ignem) 4, Magical Affinity 
(Ignem) 4, Finesse (Ignem) 1, Penetration (Perdo) 3, 
Dodge (beast attacks) 3, Guile (to authority) 3, Subterfuge 
(con) 4, Certdrnen (Ignem) 4, Brawl (Magi) 3, Forgery 
(letters) 2, Intimidation (peasants) 4, Intrigue (Covenant 
politics) 4, Occult Lore (demon plots) 4, Broadsword 
Attack (peasants) 3 
Confidence: 3 
Reputation: Diabolist like Master (Magi) 2, after rise of 
Shadow Flambeau 
Personality Traits: Brave +2, Vengeful +1, Indepen- 
dent +3, Afraid of Rasus +1, Honest -2, Watchful +3 
Techniques and Forms: Creo 6, Intellego 8, Muto 6, 
Perdo 6, Rego 6, AnimAl 3, Aquam 0, Auram 3, Corporem 
6, Herbam 0, Ignem 8, ImAgonem 3, Mentem 7, Terram 3, 
Vim 5 
Spell Casting Speed: +O 
Twilight Points: 0 
Effects of Twilight: None 
Spells Known: Pilurn of Fire (CrIg 20) +18, Wind oj 
Mundane Silence (PeVi 20) +11, Vision of Heat's Light (InIg 
20) +20, 
'Perception of Conflicting Motives (InMe 15) +15, 
The Inexorable Search (InCo 20) +14, Whispering Win& 
(InAu 10) +11, TongueoftheBeasts (InAn 15) +11 
Wizards Sigil: See Warped Magic, above 
Weapons and Armor: 
Broadsword Totals: First Strike +5, Attack +8, Dam- 
Encumbrance: 0 
Other Combat Totals: Dodge Defense +2 (8 Action) 
age +10 
Soak +O (6 Action), Fatigue +O 
t' 
Met ron 
Metron is one of Rasus's favorite young Magi. He is 
devious and knows the ways of intrigue well. He always hints 
at meanings greater than the face value of his words. He 
attempts to confuse opponents so they do not know what to 
expect. If it comes down to it, Metron has every Flambeau's 
arsenal of offensive options and isn't afraid to use them. 
: 
1 
' 
Relegare 
Relegare has been corrupted by a demon of Lust and has 
given herself over to that sin. She speaks slowly and gazes 
longingly at those she interacts with. 
FORTRESS 
Note: This description ofjaferiya pre-dates its exposure CIS a 
For the layout of the Covenant, see thejaferiya map. 
Jaferiya stands upon a rocky hill, in the stark landscape 
surrounding the village of Tanames. A meager stream runs its 
path south of the Covenant, facing the gates. Upon entering the 
Covenant, the first thing that strikes the visitor is the enormous 
hourglass set in the center of the courtyard. This device of glass 
and bronze gleams in the sun and slowly marks the passage of 
time, the great destroyer. The glass is marked with several lines 
and actually measures a period of 12 hours. The Covenant has 
built its schedule around the hourglass. The watches of the 
Covenant of diabolists. 


--- Page ---

Relegare 
Characteristics: Intelligence (clever) +2, Perception 
(intuitive) +1, Strength 0, Stamina (enduring) +2, Presence 
(alluring eyes) +3, Communication (seductive voice) +2, 
Dexterity (indelicate) -1, Quickness 0 
Age: 31 (looks 23) 
Sue: 0 
Virtues and Flaws: Lust Passion (men and women) 
+3, Magical Affinity (Mentem) +3, Strong Personality +1, 
Infamous Master - 1 (after rise of Shadow Flambeau), Over- 
confident -1 
Abilities: Speakkonese (bawdy stones) 4, Scribekdnese 
scribe Latin (memo& of exploits) 3, Magic Theory (magical 
items) 5,HermesLore (Magiwhoarenotimpotent) 3,Hermetic 
History (Magi with children) 2, Parmu Magics (C6rporem) 4, 
Magical Affhty (Mentem) 3, Craft Sex Toys (padul ones) 4, 
Finesse (Cdrporem) 3, Scan (attractive people) 3, Athletics (in 
bed) 3, charm (sexual allure) 4, Folk Ken (aphrodisiacs) 2, 
Stealth (spying) 3, Drinking (to get othm drunk) 3, Chirurgy 
(scratches) 3, Occult Lore (rituals based on sex) 4, Cert&men 
(erotic poetIy)4, speak Latin (corrupted clerical ~
0
~
)
 
5, 
(C6rpore.m) 4 
Confidence: 3 
Reputation: Diabolist like Master (Magi) 2, after rise of 
Shadow Flambeau 
Personality Traits: Brave +2, Honest -3, Head- 
strong +5, Independent +5 
Techniques and Forms: Creo 4, Intellego 0, 
Muto 3, Perdo 4, Rego 6, Animal 3, Aquam 1, 
Auram 3, C6rporem 6, Herbam 1, Ignem 6, 
Imagonem 3, Mentem 6, Terram 3, Vim 5 
Spell Casting Speed: +3 
Twilight Points: 1 
Effects of Twilight: None 
Spells Known: 
Wind ofMundane Silence (PeVi 20) + 1 1, Confusion of 
the Numbed Will (ReMe 15) +17, Blessing of Childlike 
Bliss (PeMe 25) +15, Loss of But a Moment’s Memory 
(PeMe 20) +15, The Call to Slumber (ReMe 15) +17, 
Pilum of Fire (Crlg 20) +12, Lifting the Dangling Puppet 
(ReCo 20) +14, The Wound that Weeps (PeCo 15) +12 
Wizards Sigil: Those surrounding her are sexually 
aroused 
Weapons and Armor: None 
Encumbrance: 0 
Other Combat Totals: Dodge Defense +O (6 Action), 
Soak +2 (8 Action), Fatigue +2 
Grogs and the servants’ shifts are expressed in terms of marks 
on the glass: “At the mark past dawn,” 
is when the night watch 
is over; “At the turning for the evening,” is when councils begin; 
“Mid-mark,” is a synonym for midnight. When traveling, the 
Magi of Jaferiya carry miniature replicas of the glass to keep 
time. These are particularly useful in timing long-distance 
communication spells and rituals. 
Once fully arrived in the courtyard, visitors to Jaferiya are 
greeted by the Autocrat, Ferdinand. Their horses are led to the 
stables in the far western area of the courtyard while visitors are 
made comfortable in the guest quarters, just east of the main 
courtyard. The central building of the Covenant abuts the 
castle’s northern wall and spans most of its length. The building 
is made of the same brick as the walls, in a Mythic European, 
not Arabic, style. The walls of the Covenant proper do not 
reach the height of the outer walls, and they are pierced with 
many tall windows. Outbuildings are built with lower floors of 
brick and upper floors of timber. Roofs are tiled and slant into 
the central courtyard. In the small square between the guests’ 
building and the ruined tower, there is a garden. It is sheltered 
from the sun except during the noon hours, so is nearly void of 
plants. A small fountain runs in the garden and several benches 
make it an enjoyable place for rest while awaiting an audience 
with the masters of Jaferiya. Any restful feelings, however, are 
quickly disturbed by visions of the fire-scarred tower that 
seems to loom over the secluded garden. 
Visitors meeting with Magi are greeted in the great audl- 
ence hall of the main building. The doors of the audience hall 
open onto the courtyard and the hall’s length is lined with 
columns supporting the second floor gallery. The columns are 
decorated with the hourglass and flame designs favored by 
members of House Flambeau. At the far end of the hall is a dais 
that holds a low divan and a pair of candelabra. This hall was 
intended to host Tribunals when it was designed and the 
expansive gallery on the second level could easily hold all the 
Magi of the Tribunal and their personal servants. The ceiling 
of the hall is decoratedwith paintedleather panels depicting the 
victory of Christian forces over Toledo. The masters of the 
Covenant take great joy in pointing out that it was starvation 
and the long siege that brought the city to surrender, that 
perseverance brings success in all endeavors. To the left, as you 
enter the audience hall, is a series of small rooms intended for 
personal consultation with visitors. 
The council room is kept off limits to the mundane 
population of the Covenant and to visitors unless they are 
escortedin. Any apprentices training at the Covenant are given 
the task of overseeing the regular cleaning of the room and of 
escorting visitors to it. The room has low benches of stone 
situated around the walls; the central area is kept clear. The 
tiled floor marks three circles in the center of the room. The first 
circle, marked with red tiles, is the largest and encompasses the 
other two. The largest is called the Circle of Speaking. When 
addressing the Covenant’s Magi, one stands within this circle. 
, 


--- Page ---

Conversely, anything said while outside the circle is ignored 
and goes officially unrecognized in council. The other two 
circles, one distinguished by white tiles and the other by black, 
are respectively called the Circle of the Promoter and the Circle 
of the Adversary. Whenever, during a council, more than one 
person steps into the Circle of Speaking to forward thoughts to 
the rest of the Magi, the leader of the Covenant designates a 
Promoter and an Adversary. They speak in turn until the issue 
is resolved. If no resolution can be reached through the 
deliberations of the council, the Promoter and Adversary 
engage in Certhen (always using the Arts of Creo Ignem) to 
resolve the matter of contention. 
A door leads from the council chamber to the arcane 
library. The library of Jaferiya is well-rounded and reflects the 
predilections of the Covenant’s Magi. A door to the left of that 
leading into the library opens on the Covenant‘s vis stores. This 
door is kept locked and only Rasus, leader ofJaferiya, has a key. 
A Waiting Spell rests on the door that triggers a fiery death for 
anyone not knowing the proper ritual of opening. (The spell 
has a Penetration factor of +20, modified by a stress die, and 
does +20 Damage to anyone within five paces of the door, 
without damaging the door itself.) 
One door leaving the council chamber remains and it 
opens on the laboratories of the Covenant. The remaining Magi 
all have their private laboratories but these are left over from the 
time when Magi were much more numerous. Now labs are 
sometimes leased to visiting Magi, who wish to pursue inves- 
tigations in stable facilities. 
The second floor of the main building is dominated by the 
gallery, looking over the audience hall. Off to one comer of the 
gallery is Jaferiya’s mundane library. In contrast to others’ 
prejudices, the Magi of Jaferiya seem to be concerned with 
mundane knowledge and have a rather expansive collection 
that includes writings on philosophy, geometry, medicine, and 
lore of the Church. There are also some rather intriguing books 
in the collection, written by past and present members of 
Jaferiya. One of the founders left his study, The Behaviors und 
Weaknesses ofFire Drakes and other Dragons, one of the most 
complete works of its kmd, detailing the several dragons that 
the Magus sought out during his years of travel. There is also 
a collection of tomes, the notes of several Magi on their 
encounters with diabolists and demons, notes on the creations 
of non-Hermetic necromancers, and notes on other malevolent 
spirits. 
The second floor also has a lounge and study for Magi and 
their visitors. The lounge is accessible from the gallery and via 
stairs from the council chamber. The accommodations are 
comfortable, with windows looking out on the courtyard and 
visitors’ garden. The ceiling contains a skylight, allowing Magi 
to take in the celestial splendor while relaxing with a fine wine 
and pipe. More respected guests are received in this room, 
rather than in the private chambers off the audience hall. This 
room also gives access to the laboratories and minor sancti that 
take up the rest of the main building’s second floor. 
The courtyard of the Covenant is paved with stone and 
generally well-kept. If the Magi get particularly wild, the 
courtyard bears the scars of their power for a few days. 
The large barracks that houses off-duty Grogs dominates 
the southwestern edge of the courtyard and shields the rest of 
the compound from casual view. An intrepid guest is not 
prevented from exploring such areas of the Covenant interior, 
but may get stares from covenfolk, who are not used to visitors 
in their districts. 
Once past the bulk of the barracks, the upkeep of the 
grounds swiftly deteriorates. Weeds spring up around build- 
ings. Scraps of material from the carpenter’s shop litter the area 
around the barracks, and the filth of horses, dogs, and people 
lie in noisome piles, waiting to be carted to the cesspool outside 
the Covenant. 
In the back comer of the grounds, the smithy, stable, and 
kitchen share the well. The smithy’s black smoke lingers over 
his comer of the courtyard and stings the eyes of any visitors 
who penetrate the area. The food refuse collected near the 
kitchen feeds a horde of flies, which also plague the covenfolk. 
The stables are kept much better than the grounds, though the 
buildmg itself is in need of repair. 
A large area of ground is worn free of grass, leaving only 
packed earth that kick ups dust and swirls around the court- 
yard. This is the practice yard of the Grogs. Off-duty members 
may be seen sparring or wrestling here. 
The postern gate to the castle is busy, passing most 
mundane traffic in and out of the Covenant. Supplies from the 
gardens and merchants pass through this gate, and the waste of 
the Covenant is carted out through this gateway. 
OUTSIDE RELATIONS 
The Magi of Jaferiya maintain good relations with many 
members of the local nobility. The knowledge the Magi are able 
to procure, particularly about the Moslems, is often valuable to 
the nobility. In return, the nobility provides support to the 
Covenant in its endeavors. They placate city leaders when 
young Magi get out of hand and provide supplies to replenish 
the Covenant’s armory and stores. 
In contrast to its relations with the nobility, the Covenant 
treats the peasantry of Tanhmes very poorly. Younger Magi 
regularly visit the village and playfully torch homes and fields. 
The village church tends to suffer most from these energetic 
displays of power. Since Rasus prevents all but the most 
trustworthy and controlled from traveling far from the Cov- 
enant, Tanhmes is the only place that young Magi can escape 
the fetters of the Covenant. 
Since Rasus has gained power atJaferiya, the Covenant has 
maintained distant relations with other Covenants of the 
Tribunal. Jaferiya fully supports the Reconquista faction of the 
Tribunal. The Magi are therefore accepted as grudging allies 
during Tribunal meetings. Other Covenants do not always 
agree with the methods of Jaferiya’s Magi (those methods they 
know about, that is) but do support the final purpose behind 


--- Page ---

v-! 
CHAPTER FIVE: COVENANTS OF IBERIA 
those actions, counting upon Jaferiya’s votes during Tribunal Moors. Tracking down the source of these problems may very 
meetings. As of yet, the true extent of Jaferiya’s diabolical well distract characters from the important vis negotiations. 
activity has not been widely discovered. Most of the Magi’s What magicks and mundane influence is Jaferiya using to 
questionable actions have been passed off as the excesses of 
distract the characters’ claim efforts? 
membership in House Flambeau. Sooner or later, though, Magi 
Stories of midnight black horses, that appear in the night, 
of the Iberian Tribunal will learn what R~SUS 
and his minions make their way to the characters’ Covenant. Perhaps a Corn- 
are up to (and so may begin the Shadow Flambeau plot). 
panion with an attraction to horses tries to capture one of the 
beasts. Do the Magi of Jaferiya come looking for the captured 
MYSTICAL 
ATTRIBUTES 
beast, and can they recapture it without implicating themselves 
in Infernal activities? 
As part of their bargain with the powers of Darkness, the 
Magi of Jaferiya have been gifted with demonic steeds. These 
horses carry them on their missions away from the Covenant 
and to the sites of their Infernal rituals. The mounts arrive at 
the rear gate of the Covenant at dusk, on the nights they are 
needed. The people of the village have learned to hide when 
they hear the hoofbeats of the approaching steeds. 
MUNDANE 
RESOURCES 
As the Covenant of Jaferiya gradually fell under the sway 
of Hell, the effects of its alignment became evident. Outbreaks 
of disease and pestilence increased and production in the 
nearby village sharply declined. Eventually, the Covenant was 
no longer able to survive on what it could produce itself, so 
began taking more from the villagers. Now, the Covenant’s 
supplies dwindle and its equipment is scanty and in poor repair. 
Still, the Magi do not realize their prehcament. If food is scarce 
because the fields have been burned by “playful” Magi, then it 
is the peasants and covenfolk that are punished, for not 
providing enough food. Should one of the Magi need a 
particular commodity while away from the Covenant, she 
simply takes it and thinks nothing of the consequences. 
STORY IDEAS FOR 
JAFERIYA 
A regular shipment of supplies to the characters’ Cov- 
enant fails to arrive on schedule. After a wait of reasonable 
length a group is sent out to investigate. Characters find the 
wagon of their supplier off the road and overturned, the guards 
and their agent dead. Many of victims have been burned to 
death and many of the characters’ supplies are missing. There’s 
no hrect evidence to suggest Jaferiya Magi out on a jaunt, but 
Flambeau Magi have recently been seen in the vicinity. 
Jaferiya expands its territory and claims a source of vis 
that belongs to the characters’ Covenant. During negotiations 
over ownership, the characters’ Covenant is plagued by strange 
happenings. Some Grogs visiting a nearby town lose their 
minds and go berserk in the middle of a market; covenfolk are 
plagued by nightmares; a local baron arrives to let characters 
know their stronghold is needed as a base for a raid on the 
Jaferiya’s Steeds 
Infernal Might: 15 
Vital Statistics: Size +3, Intelligence (require instruc- 
tion) -1, Perception 0, Strength (brawny) +4, Stamina 
(enduring) +6, Presence (awesome) +2, Communication n/ 
a, Dexterity 0, Quickness (furious speed) +4 
Virtues and Flaws: None 
Personality Traits: Spirited +3, Violent +3, Frightened -2 
Reputation: Horrific (villagers) 1 
Confidence: 3 
Combat Totals: 
Hoof Totals: First Strike +6, Attack +6, Damage +10 
Bite Totals: First Strike +4, Attack +5, Damage +8 
Body Levels: OK, O/O, -l/-1, -3, -5, Incapacitated 
Fatigue Levels: OK, O/O, -l/-1, -3, -5, Unconscious 
Dodge Defense +3 (9 Action), Soak +10 (16 Action), 
Fatigue +8 
. Encumbrance: 0 
Abilities: None 
Powers: 
Curse of the Wandering Heart, ReMe 20, I Point - 
Implants a desire to travel and forsake the duties to family, 
friends, and lord. Rather than a mundane journey to a local 
market or fair, or a pious journey of pilgrimage, this desire 
is’ to wander for adventurous reasons and is, therefore, 
somewhat heretical. 
Race of the Rushing Winds, ReCoMe 20,1 Point - 
The 
steed travels over land with the speed of the wind. Any rider 
is unable to dismount and feels a strange exhilaration. After 
experiencing the Race, a rider may wish to do so again, and 
soon (Intelligence stress roll of 4+ required to resist). 
Ride ofthe Blowing Clouds, MuAn/Co/Au 30,3 Points - 
The steed and any rider change into a cloud and riae or fly 
away. The speed of travel is greater than that of a bird but 
slower than the wind. This travel is not limited by any form 
of terrain. 
Vis: 3 Ignem in Hooves 


--- Page ---

arcelona, Duresca, Jdkiya, and EstAncia-es-Karida are but four Covenants in the Ibenan Tribunal. There 
is a total of ten Covenants in the Tribunal, one other besides EstAncia-es-Karida belongs to the “Roman” 
philosophy. Choosing to set your Saga in one of these other Covenants gives you a degree of pre-generated 
background, which thisbookoffers, and thechance to devote your creativeenergies to areas to your h g .  Most 
AIS Magica players enjoy creating a Covenant to call their own; d e s i p g  their characters’ home and designing the challenges 
they will face during their Covenant‘s progression through the Seasons. For this book.to define all the Tribunal‘s Covenants 
woulddeny that freedom. It‘shopedthat thematerialpresentedinthisbookinspires,notrestricts,ideasforthecreationofyour 
ownIberian Covenant. 
Just as Covenants in the Iberian Tribunal are not bound by any limitations, neither are the characters that you may 
play there. Thus, you may create any character you like, just as you may create any Covenant. However, there are 
some character types that are common and unique to the Tribunal. The following are basic character Vocations, just 
like those provided in the Ars Magica rulebook. Feel free to use these characters as .players’ characters, or as the basis 
for people that players’ characters meet. As usual, these Vocations are open to alteration as required; you are 
encouraged to specialize them to suit your Saga. 


--- Page ---

@-os Vocations 
Intelligence +1 Presence -3 
Perception +2 Communication -2 
Strength 0 
Dexterity +1 
Stamina +3 
Quickness -2 
AGE: 20 
VIRTUES O' mwg Exceptional Talent (Direction 
Sense) +1, Knack (+4 for native environment) +2, Hired 
Sword -1, Common Fear (open spaces) -2 
ABILI- 
SpeakLe6nese 4, Direction Sense 4, Leon Lore 
4, Track 3, Short Spear Attack 3, Short Spear Parry 2, 
Survival 2, Brawl 1, Scan 1, Climb 1 
CoNFIDE"FIDE3 
REPUTATION: 
Criminal 2 
IlERsoNALITY TRAITRBrave +&Loyal -1, Reliable 
WEAFONS O' ARMOR: Short Spear, Hard Leather 
-2, Hates Moors +2, Independent +2 
Cuirass 
ENCUMBRANCE: 
1 
You know these mountains and trails from traveling them 
all of your life. Time was you would use your knowledge to 
ambush travelers and merchants, taking what you could. Now 
you've hooked up with the Covenant. You're not completely sure 
of the mysterious people you work for but most of your time is 
spent as guide and tracker. Your realskill, however, is in planning 
and executing ambushes upon the unsuspecting invaders of your 
land. 
"There be at leastfifiy of them, sir, but iJ 
they keep following that path they'll come to a 
place where jive hundred can't stand against 
our ten. We must move quick ifwe're to catch 
them. " 
Intelligence +2 Presence +1 
Perception 0 
Communication +2 
Strength -1 
Dexterity +2 
stamina -3 
Quickness -3 
~
4
~
~
3
4
 
V
I
R
m
 mwg Latent Magical Ability +2, 
Exceptional Talent (Empathy) +1, Poor Hearing -1, Magical Air 
-1, Uncommon Fear (clergy) -1 
ABILITIER 
Empathy 5, Speak CatalaflrovenCal4, 
Folk Ken 4, Craft - 
Sewing 4, Storytelling 3, Iberia Lore 3, 
Etiquette 3, Chirurgy 3, Legend Lore 2, Faerie Lore 2, Intimida- 
tion 2, Sing 1 
CoNEIDE"FIDE3 
REPUTATLON: 
Good Counsel 1 
mmNA.L1= TRAITS: 
Brave +1, Good Lis- 
WEAFONS O' ARMOR: None 
You've been your own person for most of your life. Folks in 
your village called you bewitched but still came to you for advice. 
You listened and gave honest answers. If that makes you 
bewitched then the priest was right to run you out. Now you've 
come to a place where there are real witches, not just those of 
superstitious imaginations. You have grown to be accepted at the 
Covenant. You make sure the people there are decently clothed, 
and that their clothes stay in good repair. Sometimes they ask 
advice as the people in your village did. Even the Magi listen 
when you give advice. 
tener +2, Gives Advice +2, Wise +1 
ENCUMBRANCE: 
o 
"It is not anything magical. Plain common sense, that's 
all. " 


--- Page ---

Y l R Z i i i - l  
I 
PPENDIX: IBERIAN 
VOCATIONS 
Intelligence +2 Presence 0 
Perception +2 Communication +3 
Strength -2 
Dexterity -1 
(to charge) - 1, Sensitive (to insults) - 1 
ABILITIIS 
Speak CatalaflrovenCal4, Scribe Latin 4, 
Etiquette 4, Charm 4, Humanities 3, Church Knowledge 
3, Intrigue 3, Alertness 3, Sing 3, Guile 1 
coNFIDE”FIDE:3 
REPUTATION: 
None 
mSONAI,,ITY TRAITS: 
Brave +1, Proper +2, 
WEATONS O’ ARMOR: None 
Cordial + 1, Courteous +2 
ENCUMBRANCE: 
o 
A proper lady needs a wealth of instruction. Without your 
services a young woman would be destined to marry a boor, to 
give dreadful parties, and to raise hideous children. You help 
women rise above that and become as the nobility they admire. 
Along the way you have learned a few things yourself and realize 
how much your knowledge can buy. The Covenant also recog- 
nizes the importance of people like you and provides you with a 
always make men-think they’re the ones in 
charge. They become quite irritable iftheyfind 
out you’re doing things for them. ” 
“The most important thing, dear, is to 
Intelligence -2 Presence -2 
Strength +2 
Dexterity +1 
ENCUMBRANCEO 
WEAmNS u ARMOR Short Spear, Round 
Perception 0 
Communication -3 
Shield, Ring Mail Cuirass 
When the King of Le6n needed people to populate land 
captured from the Moors, your father was among the first to go. 
You earned special privileges and freedom from taxes in return 
for defending the frontier. Unfortunately, your motley band of 
farmers could not protect the land against the Moors and your 
village was destroyed. You have taken up with the nearby 
Covenant and have earned a place among the Grogs. Maybe 
someday you will go with a small band of others and found 
another village on the frontier. 
“I remember the houses of my village burning. The 
women were screaming but the men stoodfirm. Most ofthem 
died but none ofthem run.” 
Stamina +3 
Quickness +1 
AGE: 
20 
 VIR^ u mws: Long-winded +I, R~~~~~ 
of Strength +2, Dependents (family) -3 
ABIL1m 
Speak Leonese 49 
49 
Short Spear Attack 4, Round Shield Parry 3, Craft - 
Farming 4, 
Brawl 2, Drinking 2, Wagoneering 2 
REIWTATION: Loner 1 
mSlNALITY T U 1 T S : ~ r a v e  +2, Individualis- 
C0NFIDE”FIDE:s 
tic +1, Loyal +2, Thrifty +1 
.- 


--- Page ---

Companion Vocations 
Intelligence -2 Presence +1 
Perception -2 
Communication -1 
Strength +2 
Dexterity +3 
Stamina +2 
Quickness -2 
AGE: 
24 
V I R m  u mws: Superior Armaments +2, 
Stocky + 1, Long-winded + 1, Tough + 1, Knack (+2 for horses) + 1, 
Hardy Convalescence + 1, Dark Secret (Moorish blood) - 1, Delu- 
sion -1, Fury (when hurt) -3, Driving Goal (win enough booty to 
buy a horse) -1, Sensitive (to slights of position) -1 
ABILITIES: 
Speak Catalan/ProvenCal5, Ride 3, Broad- 
sword Attack 3, Broadsword Parry 3, Round Shield Parry 3, 
Charisma 3, Animal Handling 3, Survival 3, Drinking 3 
CoNFIDE"FIE3 
REPUTATION: 
None 
mNALlm TRA1TS:Brave + 1, Loves Horses 
WMmNS 
ARMOR: 
Chain Mail Cuirass, 
+2, Adventurous +2, Hates Moors -1 
Broadsword, Round Shield 
ENCUMBRANCE: 
2 
You have fought the Moors along the southern borders of 
the Christian kingdoms but have now given up the battlefield to 
work with Magi. You are a petty noble with no possessions other 
than your armaments. Your most prized possession is your red 
~- 
"Those Templars aren't such great soi 
diers. men I canagord a horse, ajGe one, not 
like that nag there, 1'11 show them what a real 
soldier can do. " 
capa and you believe that if you wear it you will come to no harm. 
You work with Magi because they offer the opportunity to seek 
grand excitement, and Templars and important nobles won't be 
able to claim all the glory and land after the battles you fight. 
Intelligence +2 Presence 0 
. 
Perception +4 
Communication +1 
Strength -3 
Dexterity -2 
Stamina -2 
Quickness 0 
 AGE:^^ 
V I R m  u mws: Exceptional Talent (Divi- 
nation) +4, Educated +1, Knack (+2 on predictions) +1, Keen 
Vision +1, Sense of Doom -3, Foreigner (Moor) -3, Favors (the 
patron of your university education) -1 
A B I L I ~  
Speak Arabic 5, Divination 4, Charm 2, 
Folk Ken 3, Scribe Arabic 3, Concentration 3, Scribe Latin 3, 
Speak Latin 2, Legend Lore 2, Guile 1 
CoNFIDE"FIE3 
REPUTATION: 
Moor 3 
PEWNALITY TRA1TS:Brave +I, Fatalistic +2, 
WMFONS 
ARMOR: 
None 
You learned astrology at the university of C6rdova and it was 
during your studies there that you learned of your fate. Born 
under ill stars, you believe you are fated to die before you 
accomplish some great task. At first you tried to avoid your fate 
but each time you checked your stars, your fate grew closer. Now 
you accept your fate and do not try to avoid it. It seems to have 
grown no closer since. 
Violent -2, Cultured +2 
ENCUMBRANCE: 
o 
"Your life was laid out from the moment oiyour birth. 
The stars know the passage of your brief time upon this 
world. " 


--- Page ---

W 5 i i - i  
1 
~ENDIX: IBERIAN 
VOCATIONS 
Intelligence +1 Presence -3 
Perception -2 
Communication -2 
Strength +3 
Dexterity +2 
C0NFIDE”FIE: 3 
RETUTAION: 
Moor 3 
m N & m  m m  
Brave +2, Loyal +2, Honest 
ENCUMBRANCE: 
o 
Your proud city has fallen to the rampaging Christians, but 
you know Moorish culture is dymg anyway. Cut off from retreat 
to Moorish lands, you sought safety at the Covenant, at first not 
even knowing whose help you beseeched, The Magi have 
accepted you, and you have responded to life among infidelswith 
the fatalistic trust that Allah‘s hand guides your steps, even now. 
w angry ut us for being more 
“I pity the Christians. They do not recog- 
Intelligence +3 Presence -3 
Perception +3 Communication -1 
Strength -1 
Dexterity +1 
stamina 
B 
+1 
Quickness -1 
coNmDE”FIDE:3 
REPUTA~ON: 
J~ 3 
PERXINALITYTRAITS:Brave+l, 
Talkative +2, 
WEATONS €7’ ARMOR None 
Compassionate +2, Loyal +1 
ENCUMBRANCE: 
o 
AGE34 
v ~ R ~ ~ ~ w ~ E d u c a t e d + 1 ~ G o o d C h a r a c -  
teristics (Dexterity) +l,Hardy Convalescence +1, Social Contacts 
urn) +1,VeVKnowledgeable +3, Foreigner UeW) -3, l’k~om- 
batant -3, Judged Unfairly -1 
AB==. 
Speak Hebrew 5, Medicine 5, S p k  Catalan/ 
Provenpl4, Speakhtin4, ScribeHebrew4, JewishLore4, Chirurgy 
4, Scribe Latin 3, Philosophy 3, Scan 3, Folk Ken 2, Pretend 1 , Charm 
1 
You have left the aljama, the Jewish community, perhaps to 
escape the contempt that your wealthy patients felt for you, even 
as YOU cured them of the illness that extravagant living brought 
upon them. The Magi appreciate your skills and some can even 
discuss metaphysics with you. It is stimulating and rewarding to 
be around people who are neither fellow Jews nor hostile Chris- 
tians. When in major cities, you are the Magi’s contact with the 
Jewish community. 
“The Christians are such hypocrites. They pass laws to 
cause us h a m  but they can not live without us. Without my 
skills, and those of others like me, their world would cease to 
be. ” 
- 
4 


--- Page ---

Magus Vocations 
CRUSADER'OF 
HOUSE 
FLAMBEAU 
Intelligence +3 Presence -2 
Perception +3 Communication -3 
Strength +1 
Dexterity -1 
stamina 0 
Quickness -1 
~
4
~
~
2
1
 
VIR= 
mws: Hatred Passion (Moors) +3, 
Enduring Constitution +1, Social Contacts (military 
orders) +1, Living Magic +4, Personal Vis Source +1, 
Driving Goal (defeat the Moors) -1, Incompatible Arts 
(CrAq) -2, Disfigured -1, Blatant Gift -1, Obsessed (kill- 
ing Moors) -1, Over-Confident -2, Haunted (by parens) 
-2 
ABETTIE 
Speak Latin 5, Magic Theory 5, Speak Own 
Language 4, P a m  Magica 3, Ride 3, Scribe Latin 3, Dodge 
2, Intimidation 2, Hermes Lore 2, Henries History 2, 
Shortsword Attack 2, Shortsword Parry 2, C
m
 
2 
CONFIDENCE: 3 
REPUTATIO0N:None 
PERsONALlTy TRA1TS:Brave +2, Angry +2, Vio- 
WmO" u ARMOR: 
Shortsword, Scale Mail 
lent +1, Restrained -2 
Cuirass 
ENCUMBRANCE: 
1 
TECH~JESANDFORMS:C~~O 
8, Intellego 0, 
Muto 1, Perdo 7, Rego 4, Animal 4, Aquam 0, Auram 0, 
Corporem 4, Herbam 0, Ignem 9, Imagonem 0, Mentem 
0, Terram 0, Vim 4 
sPm,% 
Blade ofthe Virulent Flame (CrIg 30), Pilurn ofFire 
(CrIg 20), Leap of the Fire (ReIg 15), Wind of Mundane 
Silence (PeVi 20), Circular Ward Against Demons (ReVi 
20), Grip of the Choking Hand (PeCo lo), Despair ofthe 
Quivering Manacles (ReCo lo), Agony ofthe Beast (PeAn 
lo), Ward Against Beasts ofkgend (ReAn lO),Disenchant 
(PeVi 5 )  
While many members of House Flambeau would like to see 
the Moors defeated, your hatred of them consumes you. Ever 
since your parens was killed fighting them you have dedicated 
your life to wiping their blight from the land. The Quaesitoris do 
"My founder and parens will be avenged! 
I will hunt theMooruntil theiraccursedraceno 
longer walks the land. I will scourge the land 
of them, leaving nothing standing to remember 
them by. " 
not understand the danger posed by your hated foe and you must 
often hide your actions to accomplish your goals. When attack- 
ing Moorish sorcerers, however, you have full reign as well as the 
backing of the Code. You are familiar with the many Christian 
military orders who also press the fight against the Moor. 
Oftentimes, you can assist their endeavors and you get along with 
the tough fighters of these orders. 
WEAVER OF 'HOUSE 
VEKDITIUS 
Intelligence +3 Presence +1 
VIR- 
u mws: Strong-Willed +1, Extra 
Perception -1 
Communication +1 
Strength -2 
Dexterity +2 
stamina -2 
Quickness -2 
h a 3 1  
Arts +1, Gentle Gift +1, Subtle Magic +2, Quiet Magic +2, 
Enduring Magic +3, Verditius Magic -1, Necessary Con- 
dition (must turn spindle) -1, Soft-Hearted -1, Restric- 
tion (common; when without yam or thread) -5, Incom- 
prehensible -2 
.- 


--- Page ---

Intelligence +3 Presence -3 
Perception +2 Communication -3 
Strength +2 
Dexterity 0 
stamina 0 
Quickness -1 
AGE: 
26 
v m m  
€7 mwg Aptitude With Elements 4, 
Strong-Willed +1, Night Reader +5, Flawed P a m  -1, 
Dutybound (devout Moslem) -1, Enemies (House Flam- 
beau) -1, Deep Sleeper -1, Discredited Lineage -2, Foreigner 
(Moor) -3, Vi Obligation (to Flambeau bullies) -1 
ABILITIES: 
Speak Latin 5, Magic Theory 5, Speak 
Own Language 4, Penetration 4, Scribe Arabic 3, 
Scribe Latin 3, Certdmen 3, Hermes Lore 2, Hermes 
History 2, Parma Magica 2, Survival (plains) 2, Iberia 
Lore 1 
rnNFIDENCE3 
R E P U T A T I O N :  Moor 3, Potential Traitor 
FERSONALITY TRAITS: 
Brave +2, Arrogant + 1, 
WmmNs €7 ARMOR 
Hard Leather Cuirass 
-AND 
FOIRMS: 
creo 3, Intelego 3, 
Muto 3, Perdo 3, Rego 7, A n h d  0, Aquam 5, Auram 7, 
G5rporem 3, Herbam 0, Ignem 7, Imgonem 0, Mentem 0, 
Terram 5, Vim 3 
s m .  
Waves of Drowning and Smashing (ReAq 20>, 
Wings ofthe Soaring Wind (ReAu 25), Circling Winds of 
Protection (ReAu 20), Pilum of Fire (CiIg 20), Ward 
Against Heat and Flames (ReIg 25), The Unseen Porter 
(ReTe 15), Lungs ofthe Fish (MuAq lo), Endurance of the 
Berserkers (ReCo 15) 
Your master joined the Order of Hermes because it was the 
only way for him to practice his art without being killed. You 
came to know the rituals of Certdmen and Wizard’s War well 
(Quaesitoris) 1 
Cautious + 1, Dislikes the Order + 1 
‘ 
ENCUMBRANCE: 
o 
“The Order is no better than the knights 
who destroy those that are diflerentfiom them. 
When my people ruled this l
d
 
we all lived 
together. There were difficulties but no person 
wcls an enemy because he did not belong. ” 
during your apprenticeship as your master was constantly ha- 
rassed by members of House Flambeau. When your master died, 
the Magi that tormented him came after you. So far you’ve held 
your own but the task is growing more difficult. 
ABILITES:SpeakLatin5,MagicTheory5,SpeakOwn 
Language 4, Parma Magica 3, Craft - 
Weaving 3, Scribe 
Latin 3, Verditius Magic 3, Evaluate (cloth) 3, Hermes 
Lore 2, Hemes History 2, Alertness 2, Folk Ken 2, 
Bargain 2 
C0NFIDE”FIE: 3 
REPUTATION: 
None 
TRAIT% 
Brave +1, Compas- 
’ 
sionate +2, Meddlesome +1, Wise +2 
WEAFONS €7 ARMOR: None 
ENCUMBRANC~ 
o 
AND F O W .  creo 6, ~ntdlego 6, 
Weaver’s Trap of Webs (CrAn 20), Bind Wound 
(CrCo lo), The Znexorable Search (InCo 20) , Eyes of the 
Cat (MuCo lo), Trap ofthe Entwining Vines (CrHe 15), 
Ward Against Faeries of the Wood (Re He 20), Tangle of 
Woodand Thorns (ReHe 15), Sense theNatureofVis (InVi 
lo), Waiting Spell (ReVi E), 
Watching Ward (ReVi 15) 
Your skills as a creator of extraordinary magical items have 
been channeled into the weaving skills you learned at a young 
age. As a middle-aged person, you constantly find fault in 
younger people but are merely trying to help them grow. You 
scoff at the violent attitudes of some of your sodalis. If they could 
only get along with common folk, the Order wouldn’t have so 
manv nroblems. 
I 
~
~
~
.
.
~
~
 
“Will you .look at the hem of that tunic? How can you 
q e c t  that to perform properly ij it doesn’t hang cowectly ? 
Take it 08 142 mend it quickly and youll bejne. Here, put 
Muto 1, Perdo 0, Rego 4, Aninxi1 6, Aquam 0, Auram 3, 
C6rporem 5, Herbam 7, Ignem 0, Mgonem 3, Mentem 4, 
Terram3,Vim5 
this on. You don’t want to catch a chill. ” 
L 


--- Page ---

J 
4 
4
I 
I 
: 
SUFI. OF HOUSE 
CRIAMON 
' 
i 
I 
Intelligence +3 Presence -2 
Perception +3 Communication 0 
Strength -2 
Dexterity 0 
Stamina -3 
Quickness +1 
A G E 2 5  
V ~ ~ u ~ W ~ M a g i c a l  
Affinity (Mentem) +3, 
Well-Traveled + 1, Life-Linked Spontaneous Magic +3, Inde- 
pendent Magic +2, Book Learner +1, Twihght Points -1, 
Blatant Gift -1, Incomprehensible -2, Slow Caster -2, Pure 
ABILITIES: 
Speak Latin 5, Magic Theory 5, Speak 
Own Language 4, Scribe Latin 3, Parma Magica 3, 
Enigmatic Wisdom 3, Magical Affinity (Mentem) 3, 
Hermes Lore 2, Hermes History 2, Concentration 2, 
Meditation 2, Storytelling 2, Certdmen 1 
Magic 4 
c o " c E : 3  
REPUTATION: 
None 
m N A L I T Y T R A 1 T S : B r a v e  +I, Talkative +2, 
WMmNS u XRMoR: None 
-AND 
FORMS 
creo 3, Intellego 8, 
Muto 3, Perdo 0, Rego 3, AnimA3, Aquam 0, Auram 0, 
Cdrporem 4, Herbam 0, Ignem 0, Imigonem 5, Mentem 10, 
Terram 0, Vim 4 
Mysterious +2, Acc ting +2 
ENCUMBRANCE: 
o 
TWILIGHT 
PoZNTs: 
EFFECTS OF TWILIGHT: 
None 
S'PELIm Memory of the Distant Dream (CrMe 20), Words 
ofthe Unbroken Silence (CrMe 5), Peering into the Mortal 
Mind (InMe 301, Thoughts Within Babble (InMe 25>, 
Posing the Silent Question (InMe 251, Sight of the Trans- 
parent Motive (InMe lo), Calm the Motion of the Heart 
(PeMe 15). Eyes ofthe Past (InIm 20) 
Having traveled extensively in southern Iberia, you know 
the roads and cities well. In Cdrdova you encountered a Sufi 
mystic and studied with him for a few years. While studying you 
experienced Wizards Twilight and it seemed that you took a 
mystical journey into the realms of thought. Now you travel 
again, with the Covenant acting as a center and base for your 
travels, gathering stories and wisdom. Your Sufi training has, 
unfortunately, made your perceptions of magic even more in- 
comprehensible than usual to your peers. If not for your constant 
demonstrations of magical ability you might gain a reputation as 
a lunatic. 
"Your mind is a pomegranate, flying southward behind 
thespawows. Magic is amountain, eat4 by thousands of tiny 
mouths. " 


--- Page ---

